"I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
"Deep in the human unconscious is a pervasive need for a logical universe that makes sense. But the real universe is always one step beyond logic."
"The mystery of life isn't a problem to solve, but a reality to experience."
"What do you despise? By this are you truly known."
"There is no escape, we pay for the violence of our ancestors."
"When religion and politics travel in the same cart, the riders believe nothing can stand in their way. Their movements become headlong - faster and faster and faster. They put aside all thoughts of obstacles and forget the precipice does not show itself to the man in a blind rush until it's too late."
"Hope clouds observation."
"It is so shocking to find out how many people do not believe that they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult."
"The mind can go either direction under stress—toward positive or toward negative: on or off. Think of it as a spectrum whose extremes are unconsciousness at the negative end and hyperconsciousness at the positive end. The way the mind will lean under stress is strongly influenced by training."
"He who controls the spice controls the universe."
"Without change something sleeps inside us, and seldom awakens. The sleeper must awaken."
"The mind commands the body and it obeys. The mind orders itself and meets resistance."
"It is impossible to live in the past, difficult to live in the present and a waste to live in the future."
"Fear is the mind-killer."
"Greatness is a transitory experience. It is never consistent. It depends in part upon the myth-making imagination of humankind. The person who experiences greatness must have a feeling for the myth he is in. He must reflect what is projected upon him. And he must have a strong sense of the sardonic. This is what uncouples him from belief in his own pretensions. The sardonic is all that permits him to move within himself. Without this quality, even occasional greatness will destroy a man."
"A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join it and flow with it."
"The people who can destroy a thing, they control it."
"Whether a thought is spoken or not it is a real thing and it has powers of reality"
"Survival is the ability to swim in strange water."
"Arrakis teaches the attitude of the knife - chopping off what's incomplete and saying: 'Now, it's complete because it's ended here.'- from 'Collected Sayings of Maud'Dib'' by the Princess Irulan"
"The Fremen were supreme in that quality the ancients called 'spannungsbogen' which is the self-imposed delay between desire for a thing and the act of reaching out to grasp that thing."
"You fight when the necessity arises no matter the mood! Mood's a thing for cattle or making love or playing the baliset. It's not for fighting."
"A world is supported by four things, the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these things are as nothing without a ruler who knows the art of ruling."
"Once men turned their thinking over to machines in the hope that this would set them free. But that only permitted other men with machines to enslave them."
"Highly organized research is guaranteed to produce nothing new."
"Any road followed precisely to its end leads precisely nowhere. Climb the mountain just a little bit to test that it's a mountain. From the top of the mountain, you cannot see the mountain."
"Proper teaching is recognized with ease. You can know it without fail because it awakens within you that sensation which tells you this is something you have always known."
"The willow submits to the wind and prospers until one day it is many willows - a wall against the wind."
"There should be a science of discontent. People need hard times to develop psychic muscles. - Muad'Dib"
"Try looking into that place where you dare not look! You'll find me there, staring out at you!"
"Give as few orders as possible,' his father had told him once long ago. 'Once you've given orders on a subject, you must always give orders on that subject."
"Respect for truth comes close to being the basis for all morality. Something cannot emerge from nothing. This is profound thinking if you understand how unstable the truth can be."
"There is in all things a pattern that is part of our universe. It has symmetry, elegance, and grace - these qualities you find always in that the true artist captures. You can find it in the turning of the seasons, the way sand trails along a ridge, in the branch clusters of the creosote bush of the pattern of its leaves. We try to copy these patterns in our lives and in our society, seeking the rhythms, the dances, the forms that comfort. Yet, it is possible to see peril in the finding of ultimate perfection. It is clear that the ultimate pattern contains its own fixity. In such perfection, all things move towards death."
"Beyond a critical point within a finite space, freedom diminishes as numbers increase. This is as true of humans as it is of gas molecules in a sealed flask. The human question is not how many can possibly survive within the system, but what kind of existence is possible for those who so survive."
"Any man who retreats into a cave which has only one opening deserves to die."
"How often it is that the angry man rages denial of what his inner self is telling him."
"There is probably no more terrible instant of enlightenment than the one in which you discover your father is a man - with human flesh."
"The concept of progress acts as a protective mechanism to shield us from the terrors of the future."
"Anything outside yourself, this you can see and apply your logic to it. But it’s a human trait that when we encounter personal problems, these things most deeply personal are the most difficult to bring out for our logic to scan. We tend to flounder around, blaming everything but the actual, deep-seated thing that’s really chewing on us."
"Muad'Dib learned rapidly because his first training was in how to learn. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It's shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad'Dib knew that every experience carries its lesson."
"A killer with the manners of a rabbit - this is the most dangerous kind."
"We faced it and did not resist. The storm passed through us and around us. It's gone, but we remain."
"It's well known that repression makes a religion flourish."
"Knowing where the trap is, that's the first step in evading it."
"Do you wrestle with dreams? Do you contend with shadows? Do you move in a kind of sleep? Time has slipped away. Your life is stolen. You tarried with trifles, Victim of your folly."
"Much that was called religion has carried an unconscious attitude of hostility toward life. True religion must teach that life is filled with joys pleasing to the eye of God, that knowledge without action is empty. All men must see that the teaching of religion by rules and rote is largely a hoax. The proper teaching is recognized with ease. You can know it without fail because it awakens within you that sensation which tells you this is something you’ve always known."
"You see, gentlemen, they have something to die for. They've discovered they're a people. They're awakening."
"What senses do we lack that we cannot see or hear another world all around us?"
"And always, he fought the temptation to choose a clear, safe course, warning 'That path leads ever down into stagnation'."
"Religion must remain an outlet for people who say to themselves, 'I am not the kind of person I want to be.' It must never sink into an assemblage of the self-satisfied."
"Law is the ultimate science."
"Mankind has only one science.. it's the science of discontent."
"Thou shalt not make a machine in the likeness of a human mind."
"The vision of time is broad, but when you pass through it, time becomes a narrow door."
"Paradise on my right, Hell on my left and the Angel of Death behind."
"If you rely only on your eyes, your other senses weaken."
"For now is my grief heavier than the sands of the seas. This world has emptied me of all but the oldest purpose: tomorrow's life."
"A ruler must learn to persuade and not to compel."
"It's easier to be terrified by an enemy you admire."
"When you imagine mistakes, there can be no self-defense."
"I am like a person whose hands were kept numb, without sensation from the first moment of awareness - until one day the ability to feel is forced into them. And I say 'Look! I have no hands!' But the people all around me say: 'What are hands?"
"The price we paid was the price men have always paid for achieving a paradise in this life--we went soft, we lost our edge."
"A stone is heavy and the sand is weighty; but a fool's wrath is heavier than them both."
"Humans are almost always lonely."
"The thing the ecologically illiterate don't realise about an ecosystem is that it's a system. A system! A system maintains a certain fluid stability that can be destroyed by a misstep in just one niche. A system has order, flowing from point to point. If something dams that flow, order collapses. The untrained might miss that collapse until it was too late. That's why the highest function of ecology is the understanding of consequences."
"A man's flesh is his own; the water belongs to the tribe."
"No more terrible disaster could befall your people than for them to fall into the hands of a Hero"
"Growth is limited by the necessity which is present in the least amount. And naturally, the least favorable condition controls the growth rate"
"When he wanted, he could radiate charm and sincerity, but I often wonder in these later days if anything about him was as it seemed. I think now he was a man fighting constantly to escape the bars of an invisible cage."
"What is important for a leader is that which makes him a leader. It is the needs of his people."
"The test of a man isn’t what you think he’ll do. It’s what he actually does."
"I see us giving love to each other in a time of quiet between storms. It's what we were meant to do."
"A popular man arouses the jealousy of the powerful."
"There is in each of us an ancient force that takes and an ancient force that gives. A man finds little difficulty facing that place within himself where the taking force dwells, but it’s almost impossible for him to see into the giving force without changing into something other than man. For a woman, the situation is reversed. These things are so ancient within us that they’re ground into each separate cell of our bodies. It’s as easy to be overwhelmed by giving as by taking."
"Do not count a human dead until you’ve seen his body. And even then you can make a mistake."
"Behold, as a wild ass in the desert, go I forth to my work."
"Prophets have a way of dying by violence."
"Polish comes from the cities; wisdom from the desert."
"Never obliterate a man unthinkingly, the way an entire fief might do it through some due process of law. Always do it for an overriding purpose—and know your purpose!"
"Desperate people are the most dangerous."
"You cannot avoid the interplay of politics within an orthodox religion. The power struggle permeates the training, education and disciplining of the orthodox community. Because of this pressure, the leaders of such a community inevitably much face that ultimate internal question: to succumb to complete opportunism as the price of maintaining their rule, or risk sacrificing themselves for the sake of the orthodox ethic."
"She looked at patches of blackness. Black is a blind remembering, she thought."
"The night is a tunnel, a hole into tomorrow."
"Science is made up of so many things that appear obvious after they are explained."
"O you who know what we suffer here, do not forget us in your prayers."
"What is the son but an extension of the father?"
"The day hums sweetly when you have enough bees working for you."
"It occurred to her that mercy was the ability to stop, if only for a moment. There was no mercy where there could be no stopping."
"The power to destroy a thing is the absolute control over it."
"Use the first moments in study. You may miss many an opportunity for quick victory this way, but the moments of study are insurance of success. Take your time and be sure."
"There existed no need on Caladan to build a physical paradise or a paradise of the mind."
"Scientists seek the lawfulness of events. It is the task of Religion to fit man into this lawfulness."
"Hard tasks need hard ways."
"Each man is a little war."
"A leader, is one of the things that distinguishes a mob from a people. He maintains the level of individuals. Too few individuals, and a people reverts to a mob."
"There's steel in this man that no one has taken the temper out of."
"The meeting between ignorance and knowledge, between brutality and culture - it begins in the dignity with which we treat the dead."
"Full moon calls thee Shai-hulud shall thou see; Red the night, dusky sky, Bloody death didst thou die. We pray to a moon: she is round Luck with us will then abound, What we seek for shall be found In the land of solid ground."
"I should've suspected trouble when the coffee failed to arrive."
"My lungs taste the air of time, blown past falling sands."
"The day the flesh shapes and the flesh the day shapes."
"You've heard of animals chewing off a leg to escape a trap. There's an animal kind of trick. A human would remain in the trap endure the pain feigning death that he might kill the trapper and remove a threat to his kind."
"Be prepared to appreciate what you meet."
"The proximity of a desirable thing tempts one to overindulgence. On that path lies danger."
"When law and duty are one, united by religion, you never become fully conscious, fully aware of yourself. You are always a little less than an individual."
"You can’t buy security."
"Parting with friends is a sadness. A place is only a place."
"Beginnings are such delicate times."
"There was pain in him - like a blister, all that was left of some lost yesterday that time had pruned off him."
"The universe is full of doors."
"Greatness is a transitory experience. It is never consistent."
"To accept a little death is worse than death itself."
"One should never presume one is the sole object of a hunt."
"Do as she says, you wormfaced, crawling, sand-brained piece of lizard turd!"
"The terrain enforced its own rhythms."
"One must always keep the tools of statecraft sharp and ready. Power and fear – sharp and ready."
"Fortune passes everywhere."
"Humans live best when each has his own place, when each knows where he belongs in the scheme of things. Destroy the place and destroy the person."
"He realized suddenly that it was one thing to see the past occupying the present, but the true test of prescience was to see the past in the future. Things persisted in not being what they seemed."
"The real wealth of a planet is in its landscape, how we take part in that basic source of civilization- agriculture."
"When strangers meet, great allowances should be made for differences in custom and training."
"On Caladan, we ruled with sea and air power,' the Duke said. 'Here, we must scrabble for desert power."
"There is no measuring Muad'Dib's motives by ordinary standards. In the moment of his triumph, he saw the death prepared for him, yet he accepted the treachery. Can you say he did this out of a sense of justice? Whose justice, then? Remember, we speak now of the Muad'Dib who ordered battle drums made from his enemies' skins, the Muad'Dib who denied the conventions of his ducal past with a wave of the hand, saying merely: 'I am the Kwisatz Haderach. That is reason enough."
"A plan depends as much upon execution as it does upon concept."
"Life produces a different taste each time you take it."
"He was warrior and mystic, ogre and saint, the fox and the innocent, chivalrous, ruthless, less than a god, more than a man."
"God created Arrakis to train the faithful."
"My brother comes now,' Alia said. 'Even an Emperor may tremble before Muad'Dib, for he has the strength of righteousness and heaven smiles upon him."
"I have been a stranger in a strange land, Halleck quoted. Paul stared at him, recognizing the quotation from the O.C. Bible, wondering: Does Gurney, too, wish an end to devious plots?"
"Better a dry morsel and quietness therewith than a house full of sacrifice and strife."
"Life improves the closed system's capacity to sustain life. Life - all life - is in the service of life. Necessary nutrients are made available to life by life in greater and greater richness as the diversity of life increases. The entire landscape comes alive, filled with relationships and relationships within relationships."
"Don't sit with your back to any doors."
"One of the most terrible moments in a boy’s life, is when he discovers his father and mother are human beings who share a love that he can never quite taste. It’s a loss, an awakening to the fact that the world is there and here and we are in it alone. The moment carries its own truth; you can’t evade it."
"Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
"His thoughts were too vague to be described, but they comprehended mysterious elements."
"Who asks for justice? We make our own justice."
"Arrakis makes us moral and ethical."
"The old woman was a witch shadow—hair like matted spiderwebs, hooded ’round darkness of features, eyes like glittering jewels."
"The knife is more dangerous than the hand and the knife can be in either hand."
"Our civilization appears to’ve fallen so deeply into the habit of invasion that we cannot even obey a simple order of the Imperium without the old ways cropping up."
"I'm the well-trained fruit tree. Full of well-trained feelings and abilities and all of them grafted onto me"
"To the east, the night grew a faggot of luminous grey, then seashell opalescence that dimmed the stars. There came the long, bell-tolling movement of dawn striking across a broken horizon."
"We Bene Gesserit sift people to find the humans."
"It is said in the desert that possession of water in great amount can inflict a man with fatal carelessness."
"The hunter does not seek dead game."
"Does the prophet see the future or does he see a line of weakness, a fault or cleavage that he may shatter with words or decisions as a diamond-cutter shatters his gem with a blow of a knife?"
"You must learn to rule. It's something none of your ancestors learned."
"I am a leg of the death tripod that will destroy our foes."
"What have we here—jinn or human?"
"The body, learning a thing is good for it, interprets the flavor as pleasurable—slightly euphoric. And, like life, never to be truly synthesized."
"It’s a human trait that when we encounter personal problems, those things most deeply personal are the most difficult to bring out for our logic to scan. We tend to flounder around, blaming everything but the actual, deep-seated thing that’s really chewing on us."
"In politics, the tripod is the most unstable of all structures."
"How would we flood village and city with our information? The people must learn how well I govern them. How would they know if we didn't tell them?"
"When God hath ordained a creature to die in a particular place, He causeth that creature’s wants to direct him to that place."
"Move slowly and the day of your revenge will come,' Tuek said. 'Speed is a device of Shaitan. Cool your sorrow–we’ve the diversions for it; three things there are that ease the heart–water, green grass, and the beauty of woman."
"Mood’s a thing for cattle or for making love. You fight when the necessity arises, no matter your mood."
"There are proven ways to win the loyalty of tough, strong, ferocious men: play on the certain knowledge of their superiority, the mystique of secret covenant, the esprit of shared suffering."
"At the age of fifteen, he had already learned silence."
"A good ruler has to learn his world's language, and that's different for every world, the language you don't hear just with your ears."
"Schools were started to train human talents. The Guild emphasizes almost pure mathematics. Bene Gesserit performs politics. The original Bene Gesserit school was directed by those who saw the need of a thread of continuity in human affairs. They saw there could be no such continuity without separating human stock from animal stock - for breeding purposes."
"He understood terrible purposes. They drove against all odds. They were their own necessity. Paul felt that he had been infected with terrible purpose. He did not know yet what the terrible purpose was."
"Time could be made to serve the mind."
"Power and fear, the tools of statecraft."
"When we encounter personal problems, those things most deeply personal are the most difficult to bring out for our logic to scan."
"He passed off the loss of a spice crawler with a gesture. The threat to men’s lives had him in a rage. A leader such as that would command fanatic loyalty. He would be difficult to defeat."
"Black is a blind remembering. You listen for pack sounds, for the cries of those who hunted your ancestors in a past so ancient only your most primitive cells remember. The ears see. The nostrils see."
"How strange that so few people ever looked up from the spice long enough to wonder at the near-ideal nitrogen-oxygen-CO2 balance being maintained here in the absence of large areas of plant cover."
"But attack can take strange forms. And you will remember the tooth. The tooth. Duke Leto Atreides. You will remember the tooth."
"My son will wear the title well, the Duke thought, and realized with a sudden chill that this was another death thought."
"My mother is my enemy. She does not know it, but she is. She is bringing the jihad. She bore me; she trained me. She is my enemy."
"Nothing wins more loyalty for a leader than an air of bravura."
"Even an Emperor may tremble before Muad’Dib, for he has the strength of righteousness and heaven smiles upon him."
"Tell me of thine eyes and I will tell thee of thy heart. Tell me of thy feet and I will tell thee of thy hands. Tell me of thy sleeping and I will tell thee of thy waking. Tell me of thy desires and I will tell thee of thy need."
"In shield fighting, one moves fast on defense, slow on attack, attack has the sole purpose of tricking the opponent into a misstep, setting him up for the attack sinister."
"Nothing about religion is simple."
"When your opponent fears you, then’s the moment when you give the fear its own rein, give it the time to work on him. Let it become terror. The terrified man fights himself. Eventually, he attacks in desperation. That is the most dangerous moment, but the terrified man can be trusted usually to make a fatal mistake."
"Another might have missed the tension, but she had trained him in the Bene Gesserit Way - in the minutiae of observation."
"The person who experiences greatness must have a feeling for the myth he is in. He must reflect what is projected upon him."
"Fragmentation is the natural destiny of all power."
"Delay is as dangerous as the wrong answer."
"I must rule with eye and claw — as the hawk among lesser birds."
"Color streamed into a toe of darkness testing the sand."
"The real universe is always one step behind logic."
"People need hard times and oppression to develop psychic muscles."
"Improvisation is sometimes the best."
"We will never forgive and we will never forget."
"Grief is the price of victory,"
"The best place to conserve your water is in your body. It keeps your energy up. You’re stronger. Trust your stillsuit."
"That which submits rules."
"Mercy is a chimera."
"He uses the nice old words so rich in tradition to be sure I know he means it."
"When law and duty are one, united by religion, you never become fully conscious, fully aware of yourself. You are always a little less than an individual."
"I stood upon the sand of the sea and saw a beast rise up out of the sea and upon his heads the name of blasphemy."
"Does the prophet see the future or does he see a line of weakness, a fault or cleavage that he may shatter with words or decisions as a diamond-cutter shatters his gem with a blow of a knife?"
"The drowning man who climbs on your shoulders to save himself is understandable except when you see it happen in the drawing room."
"Isn’t it odd how we misunderstand the hidden unity of kindness and cruelty?"
"The mind can go either direction under stress: toward positive or toward negative."
"A good ruler has to learn his world’s language, that it’s different for every world."
"The highest function of ecology is understanding consequences."
"A single obscure decision of prophecy, perhaps the choice of one word over another, could change the entire aspect of the future."
"I’ll never be a Mentat, I’m something else a freak."
"Gurney says there’s no artistry in killing with the tip, that it should be done with the edge."
"Can you remember your first taste of spice? It tasted like cinnamon."
"Men and their works have been a disease on the surface of their planets. Nature tends to compensate for diseases, to remove or encapsulate them, to incorporate them into the system in her own way."
"Men looked at their gods and their rituals and saw that both were filled with that most terrible of all equations: fear over ambition."
"Feints within feints within feints."
"When you take your stand along the maker's path, you must remain utterly still. You must think like a patch of sand. Hide beneath your cloak and become a little dune in your very essence."
"You never talk of likelihoods on Arrakis. You speak only of possibilities."
"There’s an internally recognized beauty of motion and balance on any man-healthy planet, you see in this beauty a dynamic stabilizing effect essential to all life. Its aim is simple: to maintain and produce coordinated patterns of greater and greater diversity. Life improves the closed system’s capacity to sustain life. Life all life is in the service of life. Necessary nutrients are made available to life by life in greater and greater richness as the diversity of life increases. The entire landscape comes alive, filled with relationships and relationships within relationships."
"The natural human´s an animal without a logic. Your projection of logic onto all affairs is unnatural."
"The tribal commander must lose no face among those who should obey him."
"When religion and politics ride the same cart, when that cart is driven by a living holy man (baraka), nothing can stand in their path."
"If he could smell the pre-spice mass, that meant the gasses deep under the sand were nearing explosive pressure."
"Yes. They’ll call me Muad’Dib, the one who points the way. Yes that’s what they’ll call me."
"Some things beggar likeness."
"We pray to a moon: she is round luck with us will then abound, what we seek for shall be found in the land of solid ground."
"You cannot avoid the interplay of politics within an orthodox religion. This power struggle permeates the training, educating and disciplining of the orthodox community. Because of this pressure, the leaders of such a community inevitably must face that ultimate internal question: to succumb to complete opportunism as the price of maintaining their rule, or risk sacrificing themselves for the sake of the orthodox ethic."
"There's coffee for those who want it."
"Sir, I honor and respect the personal dignity of any man who respects my dignity."
"The people must learn how well I govern them. How would they know if we didn’t tell them?"
"You must cultivate ecological literacy among the people."
"In politics, the tripod is he most unstable of all structures. It's be bad enough without the complication of a feudal trade culture which turns its back on most science."
"The most perfect barrier to learning a thing is the belief that is it already known."
"The eye that looks ahead to the safe course is closed forever."
"That which makes a man superhuman is terrifying."
"Fate is sometimes inscrutable."
"A human can override any nerve in the body."
"You have a nicety of awareness of the difference between a blade's edge and its tip."
"Given the right lever you can move a planet."
"Kindness is the beginning of cruelty."
"When you live upon Arrakis, khala, the land is empty. The moons will be your friends, the sun your enemy."
"The Atreides are known to start late getting there growth."
"Do not make the error of considering my son a child,"
"Then she said a good ruler has to learn his world’s language, that it’s different for every world. And I thought she meant they didn’t speak Galach on Arrakis, but she said that wasn’t it at all. She said she meant the language of the rocks and growing things, the language you don’t hear just with your ears."
"Paul sat silently in the darkness, a single stark thought dominating his awareness: My mother is my enemy. She does not know it, but she is. She is bringing the jihad. She bore me; she trained me. She is my enemy."
"You should fear me, Mother. I am the Kwisatz Haderach."
"You shall be known among us as Usul, the base of the pillar. This is your secret name, your troop name. We of Sietch."
"They compose poems to their knives."
"Muad’Dib is wise in the ways of the desert. Muad’Dib creates his own water. Muad’Dib hides from the sun and travels in the cool night. Muad’Dib is fruitful and multiplies over the land. Muad’Dib we call ‘instructor-of-boys.’ That is a powerful base on which to build your life, Paul-Muad’Dib, who is Usul among us. We welcome you."
"We change our past by what we learn."
"The man without emotions is the one to fear."
"We bribe the Guild with a monstrous payment in spice to keep our skies clear of satellites and such that none may spy what we do to the face of Arrakis."
"Forever seeking, forever prepared and forever unready."
"A duke's son must know about poisons. It's the way of our times."
"They’ve lost the initiative, which means they’ve lost the war."
"And that day dawned when Arrakis lay at the hub of the universe with the wheel poised to spin."
"He realized suddenly that it was one thing to see the past occupying the present, but the true test of prescience was to see the past in the future."
"Memories rolled in his mind like the toothless mutterings of old women."
"and the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve but a reality to experience."
"Is it defeatist or treacherous for a doctor to diagnose a disease correctly?"
"When you look inward and confront the raw force of your own life unshielded, you see your peril. You see that this could overwhelm you. The greatest peril to the Giver is the force that takes. The greatest peril to the Taker is the force that gives. It’s as easy to be overwhelmed by giving as by taking."
"I have another kind of sight. I see another kind of terrain: the available paths."
"the most persistent principles of the universe were accident and error. Even the hawks could appreciate these facts."
"Control the coinage and the courts, let the rabble have the rest."
"Speed is a device of Shaitan."
"For when youth and beauty have gone, she will find that the place-between, once occupied by tension, has become a wellspring of cunning and resourcefulness."
"You will address me as Sire or my Lord."
"Life improves the closed system’s capacity to sustain life. Life—all life is in the service of life."
"Bitterness I understand, but let us not rail about justice as long as we have arms and the freedom to use them."
"You have no idea how much consternation this restraint created in the Royal Creche. Subtlety and self-control were, after all, the most deadly threats to us all."
"Arrakis, the planet known as Dune, is forever his place."
"The Duke felt in this moment that his own dearest dream was to end all class distinctions and never again think of deadly order."
"I’m getting old, he thought. I’ve felt the cold hand of my mortality. And in what? An old woman’s greed."
"Beyond a critical point within a finite space, freedom diminishes as numbers increase."
"Someday I’ll catch that man without a quotation and he’ll look undressed."
"In the silence that came between them, a breeze from a ventilator could be heard fingering the blinds."
"The birds were a blurred patch on silver-blue sky—distant flecks of soot floating above him."
"They were cheap masks locked on festering thoughts—voices gabbling to drown out the loud silence in every breast."
"Growth itself can produce unfavorable conditions unless treated with extreme care."
"A precipice does not show itself to the man in a blind rush until it’s too late."
"Black is a blind remembering,"
"Paul raised his voice: 'Observe her, comrades! This is a Bene Gesserit Reverend Mother, patient in a patient cause. She could wait with her sisters -- ninety generations for the proper combination of genes and environment to produce the one person their schemes required. Observe her! She knows now that the ninety generations have produced that person. Here I stand . . . but . . . I . . . will . . . never . . . do . . . her . . . bidding!"
"Sift people to find the humans."
"To the people whose labors go beyond ideas into the realm of real materials to the dry-land ecologists, wherever they may be, in whatever time they work, this effort at prediction is dedicated in humility and admiration."
"I’ll sheath my knife in your blood."
"Most educated people know that the worst potential competition for any young organism can come from its own kind... They are eating from the same bowl. They have the same basic requirements"
"If a child, an untrained person, an ignorant person, or an insane person incites trouble, it is the fault of authority for not predicting and preventing that trouble."
"The human question is not how many can possibly survive within the system, but what kind of existence is possible for those who do survive."
"Arrakis has it's own way determining who wears the mantle of authority."
"The highest function of ecology is the understanding of consequences."
"However, I’ve arranged for you to have a filmbook viewer and several lessons during the crossing to Arrakis."
"A faint green-pearl luminescence etched the eastern horizon."
"The agnostic ruling class for whom religion was a kind of puppet show to amuse the polpulace and keep it docile, and who believed essentially that all phenomena – even religious phenomena – could be reduced to mechanical explanations."
"We Fremen have a saying: ‘God created Arrakis to train the faithful.’ One cannot go against the word of God."
"And the race knew only one sure way for this—the ancient way, the tried and certain way that rolled over everything in its path: jihad."
"Control the coinage and the courts let the rabble have the rest. If you want profits, you must rule. There is truth in these words, but I ask myself: Who are the rabble and who are the ruled?"
"I have been a stranger in a strange land."
"Command must always look confident. All that faith riding on your shoulders while you sit in the critical seat and never show it."
"I’m morally tired."
"His left hand felt the sphincter"
"May your blade chip and shatter"
"To attempt an understanding of Muad’Dib without understanding his mortal enemies, the Harkonnens, is to attempt seeing Truth without knowing Falsehood. It is the attempt to see the Light without knowing Darkness."
"Better a dry morsel and quietness than a house full of sacrifice and strife."
"A time of love and a time of grief."
"What terrible things we do to those we love!"
"There is a fifth force which shaped religious belief, but its effect is so universal and profound that it deserves to stand alone. This is, of course, space travel—and in any discussion of religion, it deserves to be written thus: SPACE TRAVEL!"
"The size of the attack struck his mind like a physical blow."
"He could see it stretching ahead of him, a time of relative quiet in a hidden sietch, a moment of peace between periods of violence."
"There must be terrible purpose in it the pain and fear had been terrible. He understood terrible purposes. They drove against all odds. They were their own necessity."
"How the mind gears itself for its environment,"
"To save one from a mistake is a gift of paradise,"
"You must think like a patch of sand. Hide beneath your cloak and become a little dune in your very essence."
"How do you call among you the little mouse, the mouse that jumps?"
"Arrakis is a one-crop planet, one crop."
"Riots and comedy are but symptoms of the times, profoundly revealing."
"That girl! She was like a touch of destiny"
"Observe the plans within plans within plans"
"Respect for the truth comes close to being the basis for all morality."
"White for poison, black for purity."
"They’re in league with the future."
"He shall know your ways as though born to them."
"I am a theater of processes. I am a prey to the imperfect vision, to the race consciousness and its terrible purpose."
"One of the most terrible moments in a boy’s life, is when he discovers his father and mother are human beings who share a love that he can never quite taste. It’s a loss, an awakening to the fact that the world is there and here and we are in it alone."
"They'll call me Muad'Dib, 'The One Who Points the Way'."
"What delicious abandon in the sleep of a child. If only adults could relax like that. Where do we lose it?"
"I swear this to you by the love I hold for you, a love I will still hold even after I leave you dead on this floor."
"We know what we have ahead of us—work. We’ve been trained for it. We’ve some experience in it. We know what the rewards are and the alternatives are clear enough."
"What better way to destroy me than to sow suspicion of the woman I love?"
"We cannot have such inept chess players in our employ."
"There was time to probe and test and taste, but no time to shape."
"Is it defeatist or treacherous for a doctor to diagnose a disease correctly?"
"The realization that all religions had at least one common commandment: 'Thou shalt not disfigure the soul'."
"Here there was a substance more precious than all others - it was life itself and entwined all around with symbolism and ritual."
"Show no mercy. Never stop. Mercy is a chimera. It can be defeated by the stomach rumbling its hunger, by the throat crying its thirst."
"Wisdom tempers love, doesn’t it? And it puts a new shape on hate."
"The whole theory of warfare is calculated risk, but when it comes to risking your own family, the element of calculation gets submerged in other things."
"The race knows its own mortality and fears stagnation of its heredity."
"He was warrior and mystic, ogre and saint, the fox and the innocent, chivalrous, ruthless, less than a god, more than a man. There is no measuring Muad’Dib’s motives by ordinary standards. In the moment of his triumph, he saw the death prepared for him, yet he accepted the treachery."
"The unknown brings its own worries."
"Where Thufir Hawat goes, death and deceit follow."
"She sleeps in the Waters of Life."
"The face was predatory: thin, full of sharp angles and panes."
"Mercy was the ability to stop, if only for a moment. There was no mercy where there could be no stopping."
"Beginning is the time for taking the most delicate care that the balances are correct."
"When one has lived with prophecy for so long, the moment of revelation is a shock."
"Starlight displaced just enough of the night to charge each shadow with menace."
"A ruling class that lives as ruling classes have lived in all times while, beneath them, a semihuman mass of semislaves exists on the leavings."
"The waiting moment was packed with time, with rustling needle-stick movements."
"It is said in the desert that possession of water in great amount can inflict a man with fatal carelessness."
"If wishes were fishes we’d all cast nets."
"The whole theory of warfare is calculated risk."
"You cannot go on forever stealing what you need without regard to those who come after. The physical qualities of a planet are written into its economic and political record. We have the record in front of us and our course is obvious."