"I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
"Deep in the human unconscious is a pervasive need for a logical universe that makes sense. But the real universe is always one step beyond logic."
"The mystery of life isn't a problem to solve, but a reality to experience."
"What do you despise? By this are you truly known."
"There is no escape—we pay for the violence of our ancestors."
"When religion and politics travel in the same cart, the riders believe nothing can stand in their way. Their movements become headlong - faster and faster and faster. They put aside all thoughts of obstacles and forget the precipice does not show itself to the man in a blind rush until it's too late."
"Hope clouds observation."
"It is so shocking to find out how many people do not believe that they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult."
"The mind can go either direction under stress—toward positive or toward negative: on or off. Think of it as a spectrum whose extremes are unconsciousness at the negative end and hyperconsciousness at the positive end. The way the mind will lean under stress is strongly influenced by training."
"He who controls the spice controls the universe."
"Without change something sleeps inside us, and seldom awakens. The sleeper must awaken."
"The mind commands the body and it obeys. The mind orders itself and meets resistance."
"It is impossible to live in the past, difficult to live in the present and a waste to live in the future."
"Fear is the mind-killer."
"Greatness is a transitory experience. It is never consistent. It depends in part upon the myth-making imagination of humankind. The person who experiences greatness must have a feeling for the myth he is in. He must reflect what is projected upon him. And he must have a strong sense of the sardonic. This is what uncouples him from belief in his own pretensions. The sardonic is all that permits him to move within himself. Without this quality, even occasional greatness will destroy a man."
"A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join it and flow with it."
"The people who can destroy a thing, they control it."
"Whether a thought is spoken or not it is a real thing and it has power"
"Survival is the ability to swim in strange water."
"Try looking into that place where you dare not look! You'll find me there, staring out at you!"
"Arrakis teaches the attitude of the knife - chopping off what's incomplete and saying: 'Now, it's complete because it's ended here.'- from 'Collected Sayings of Maud'Dib'' by the Princess Irulan"
"The Fremen were supreme in that quality the ancients called 'spannungsbogen' -- which is the self-imposed delay between desire for a thing and the act of reaching out to grasp that thing."
"What has mood to do with it? You fight when the necessity arises—no matter the mood! Mood's a thing for cattle or making love or playing the baliset. It's not for fighting."
"Grave this on your memory, lad: A world is supported by four things...' she held up four big-knuckled fingers. '...the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these things are as nothing...' She closed her fingers into a fist. '...without a ruler who knows the art of ruling. Make that the science of your tradition!"
"Once men turned their thinking over to machines in the hope that this would set them free. But that only permitted other men with machines to enslave them."
"Highly organized research is guaranteed to produce nothing new."
"Any road followed precisely to its end leads precisely nowhere. Climb the mountain just a little bit to test that it's a mountain. From the top of the mountain, you cannot see the mountain."
"Proper teaching is recognized with ease. You can know it without fail because it awakens within you that sensation which tells you this is something you have always known."
"The willow submits to the wind and prospers until one day it is many willows - a wall against the wind."
"There should be a science of discontent. People need hard times to develop psychic muscles. -- Muad'Dib"
"I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
"Deep in the human unconscious is a pervasive need for a logical universe that makes sense. But the real universe is always one step beyond logic."
"The mystery of life isn't a problem to solve, but a reality to experience."
"What do you despise? By this are you truly known."
"There is no escape—we pay for the violence of our ancestors."
"When religion and politics travel in the same cart, the riders believe nothing can stand in their way. Their movements become headlong - faster and faster and faster. They put aside all thoughts of obstacles and forget the precipice does not show itself to the man in a blind rush until it's too late."
"Hope clouds observation."
"It is so shocking to find out how many people do not believe that they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult."
"The mind can go either direction under stress—toward positive or toward negative: on or off. Think of it as a spectrum whose extremes are unconsciousness at the negative end and hyperconsciousness at the positive end. The way the mind will lean under stress is strongly influenced by training."
"He who controls the spice controls the universe."
"Without change something sleeps inside us, and seldom awakens. The sleeper must awaken."
"The mind commands the body and it obeys. The mind orders itself and meets resistance."
"It is impossible to live in the past, difficult to live in the present and a waste to live in the future."
"Fear is the mind-killer."
"Greatness is a transitory experience. It is never consistent. It depends in part upon the myth-making imagination of humankind. The person who experiences greatness must have a feeling for the myth he is in. He must reflect what is projected upon him. And he must have a strong sense of the sardonic. This is what uncouples him from belief in his own pretensions. The sardonic is all that permits him to move within himself. Without this quality, even occasional greatness will destroy a man."
"A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join it and flow with it."
"The people who can destroy a thing, they control it."
"Whether a thought is spoken or not it is a real thing and it has power,' Tuek said. 'You might find the line between life and death among the Fremen to be too sharp and quick."
"Survival is the ability to swim in strange water."
"Try looking into that place where you dare not look! You'll find me there, staring out at you!"
"Arrakis teaches the attitude of the knife - chopping off what's incomplete and saying: 'Now, it's complete because it's ended here.'- from 'Collected Sayings of Maud'Dib'' by the Princess Irulan"
"The Fremen were supreme in that quality the ancients called 'spannungsbogen' -- which is the self-imposed delay between desire for a thing and the act of reaching out to grasp that thing."
"What has mood to do with it? You fight when the necessity arises—no matter the mood! Mood's a thing for cattle or making love or playing the baliset. It's not for fighting."
"Grave this on your memory, lad: A world is supported by four things...' she held up four big-knuckled fingers. '...the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these things are as nothing...' She closed her fingers into a fist. '...without a ruler who knows the art of ruling. Make that the science of your tradition!"
"Once men turned their thinking over to machines in the hope that this would set them free. But that only permitted other men with machines to enslave them."
"Highly organized research is guaranteed to produce nothing new."
"Any road followed precisely to its end leads precisely nowhere. Climb the mountain just a little bit to test that it's a mountain. From the top of the mountain, you cannot see the mountain."
"Proper teaching is recognized with ease. You can know it without fail because it awakens within you that sensation which tells you this is something you have always known."
"The willow submits to the wind and prospers until one day it is many willows - a wall against the wind."
"There should be a science of discontent. People need hard times to develop psychic muscles. -- Muad'Dib"
"Give as few orders as possible,' his father had told him once long ago. 'Once you've given orders on a subject, you must always give orders on that subject."
"My father once told me that respect for truth comes close to being the basis for all morality. 'Something cannot emerge from nothing,' he said. This is profound thinking if you understand how unstable 'the truth' can be."
"There is in all things a pattern that is part of our universe. It has symmetry, elegance, and grace - these qualities you find always in that the true artist captures. You can find it in the turning of the seasons, the way sand trails along a ridge, in the branch clusters of the creosote bush of the pattern of its leaves. We try to copy these patterns in our lives and in our society, seeking the rhythms, the dances, the forms that comfort. Yet, it is possible to see peril in the finding of ultimate perfection. It is clear that the ultimate pattern contains its own fixity. In such perfection, all things move towards death."
"Beyond a critical point within a finite space, freedom diminishes as numbers increase. This is as true of humans as it is of gas molecules in a sealed flask. The human question is not how many can possibly survive within the system, but what kind of existence is possible for those who so survive."
"Any man who retreats into a cave which has only one opening deserves to die."
"How often it is that the angry man rages denial of what his inner self is telling him."
"There is probably no more terrible instant of enlightenment than the one in which you discover your father is a man - with human flesh."
"The concept of progress acts as a protective mechanism to shield us from the terrors of the future."
"Anything outside yourself, this you can see and apply your logic to it. But it’s a human trait that when we encounter personal problems, these things most deeply personal are the most difficult to bring out for our logic to scan. We tend to flounder around, blaming everything but the actual, deep-seated thing that’s really chewing on us."
"Muad'Dib learned rapidly because his first training was in how to learn. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It's shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad'Dib knew that every experience carries its lesson."
"A killer with the manners of a rabbit - this is the most dangerous kind."
"We faced it and did not resist. The storm passed through us and around us. It's gone, but we remain."
"But it's well known that repression makes a religion flourish."
"Then, as his planet killed him, it occurred to Kynes that his father and all the other scientists were wrong, that the most persistent principles of the universe were accident and error."
"Knowing where the trap is—that's the first step in evading it."
"Do you wrestle with dreams? Do you contend with shadows? Do you move in a kind of sleep? Time has slipped away. Your life is stolen. You tarried with trifles, Victim of your folly."
"Many have marked the speed with which Muad'Dib learned the necessities of Arrakis. The Bene Gesserit, of course, know the basis of this speed. For the others, we can say that Muad'Dib learned rapidly because his first training was in how to learn. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad'Dib knew that every experience carries its lesson."
"Much that was called religion has carried an unconscious attitude of hostility toward life. True religion must teach that life is filled with joys pleasing to the eye of God, that knowledge without action is empty. All men must see that the teaching of religion by rules and rote is largely a hoax. The proper teaching is recognized with ease. You can know it without fail because it awakens within you that sensation which tells you this is something you’ve always known."
"You see, gentlemen, they have something to die for. They've discovered they're a people. They're awakening."
"What senses do we lack that we cannot see or hear another world all around us?"
"And always, he fought the temptation to choose a clear, safe course, warning 'That path leads ever down into stagnation."
"Religion must remain an outlet for people who say to themselves, 'I am not the kind of person I want to be.' It must never sink into an assemblage of the self-satisfied."
"Law is the ultimate science."
"Mankind has only one science… its the science of discontent."
"Thou shalt not make a machine in the likeness of a human mind."
"The vision of time is broad, but when you pass through it, time becomes a narrow door."
"Paradise on my right, Hell on my left and the Angel of Death behind."
"If you rely only on your eyes, your other senses weaken."
"For now is my grief heavier than the sands of the seas, she thought. This world has emptied me of all but the oldest purpose: tomorrow's life."
"A ruler must learn to persuade and not to compel."
"It's easier to be terrified by an enemy you admire."
"When you imagine mistakes, there can be no self-defense."
"I am like a person whose hands were kept numb, without sensation from the first moment of awareness - until one day the ability to feel is forced into them. And I say 'Look! I have no hands!' But the people all around me say: 'What are hands?"
"Think on it, Chani: the princess will have the name, yet she'll live as less than a concubine - never to know a moment of tenderness from the man to whom she's bound. While we, Chani, we who carry the name of concubine - history will call us wives."
"The price we paid was the price men have always paid for achieving a paradise in this life--we went soft, we lost our edge."
"A stone is heavy and the sand is weighty; but a fool's wrath is heavier than them both."
"Humans are almost always lonely."
"The thing the ecologically illiterate don't realise about an ecosystem is that it's a system. A system! A system maintains a certain fluid stability that can be destroyed by a misstep in just one niche. A system has order, flowing from point to point. If something dams that flow, order collapses. The untrained might miss that collapse until it was too late. That's why the highest function of ecology is the understanding of consequences."
"A man's flesh is his own; the water belongs to the tribe."
"No more terrible disaster could befall your people than for them to fall into the hands of a Hero"
"Growth is limited by the necessity which is present in the least amount. And naturally, the least favorable condition controls the growth rate"
"When he wanted, he could radiate charm and sincerity, but I often wonder in these later days if anything about him was as it seemed. I think now he was a man fighting constantly to escape the bars of an invisible cage."
"What is important for a leader is that which makes him a leader. It is the needs of his people."
"The test of a man isn’t what you think he’ll do. It’s what he actually does."
"I see us giving love to each other in a time of quiet between storms. It's what we were meant to do."
"Leto turned a hard stare at Kynes. And Kynes, returning the stare, found himself troubled by a fact he had observed here: This Duke was concerned more over the men than he was over the spice. He risked his own life, and that of his son to save the men. He passed off the loss of a spice crawler with a gesture. The threat to men's lives had him in a rage. A leader such as that would command fanatic loyalty. He would be difficult to defeat.Against his own will and all previous judgements, Kynes admitted to himself: I like this Duke."
"A popular man arouses the jealousy of the powerful."
"There is in each of us an ancient force that takes and an ancient force that gives. A man finds little difficulty facing that place within himself where the taking force dwells, but it’s almost impossible for him to see into the giving force without changing into something other than man. For a woman, the situation is reversed…These things are so ancient within us…that they’re ground into each separate cell of our bodies…It’s as easy to be overwhelmed by giving as by taking."
"I should like friendship with you ... and trust. I should like that respect for each other which grows in the breast without demand for the huddlings of sex."
"His voice was low, charged with unspeakable adjectives."
"There’s a Bene Gesserit saying," she said. "You have sayings for everything!" he protested. "You’ll like this one," she said. "It goes: ‘Do not count a human dead until you’ve seen his body. And even then you can make a mistake."
"Behold, as a wild ass in the desert, go I forth to my work."
"Prophets have a way of dying by violence."
"Polish comes from the cities; wisdom from the desert."
"Never obliterate a man unthinkingly, the way an entire fief might do it through some due process of law. Always do it for an overriding purpose—and know your purpose!"
"What delicious abandon in the sleep of the child. Where do we lose it?"
"Desperate people are the most dangerous."
"Maud’Dib could indeed, see the Future, but you must understand the limits of this power. Think of sight. You have eyes, yet cannot see without light. If you are on the floor of a valley, you cannot see beyond the valley. Just so, Maud’Dib could not always choose to look across the mysterious terrain. He tells us that a single obscure decision of prophecy, perhaps the choice of one word over another, could change the entire aspect of the future. He tells us "The vision of time is broad, but when you pass through it, time becomes a narrow door." And always, he fought the temptation to choose a clear, safe course, warning "That path leads ever down into stagnation."
"You cannot avoid the interplay of politics within an orthodox religion. The power struggle permeates the training, education and disciplining of the orthodox community. Because of this pressure, the leaders of such a community inevitably much face that ultimate internal question: to succumb to complete opportunism as the price of maintaining their rule, or risk sacrificing themselves for the sake of the orthodox ethic."
"No conocerás el miedo. El miedo mata la mente. El miedo es la pequeña muerte que conduce a la destrucción total. Afrontaré mi miedo. Permitiré que pase sobre mí y a través de mí. Y cuando haya pasado girare mi ojo interior para escrutar su camino. Allá donde haya pasado el miedo ya no habrá nada. Solo estare yo."
"She looked at patches of blackness. Black is a blind remembering, she thought."
"The night is a tunnel, she thought, a hole into tomorrow..."
"Science is made up of so many things that appear obvious after they are explained."
"O you who know what we suffer here, do not forget us in your prayers."
"What is the son but an extension of the father?"
"The day hums sweetly when you have enough bees working for you."
"It occurred to her that mercy was the ability to stop, if only for a moment. There was no mercy where there could be no stopping."
"The power to destroy a thing is the absolute control over it."
"Use the first moments in study. You may miss many an opportunity for quick victory this way, but the moments of study are insurance of success. Take your time and be sure."
"We came from Caladan—a paradise world for our form of life. There existed no need on Caladan to build a physical paradise or a paradise of the mind—we could see the actuality all around us. And the price we paid was the price men have always paid for achieving a paradise in this life—we went soft, we lost our edge."
"Scientists seek the lawfulness of events. It is the task of Religion to fit man into this lawfulness."
"Hard tasks need hard ways."
"TO THE LADY JESSICA-May this place give you as much pleasure as it has given me. Please permit the room to convey a lesson we learned from the same teachers: the proximity of a desirable thing tempts one to overindulgence. On that path lies danger. My kindest wishes,MARGOT LADY FENRING"
"A beginning is the time for taking the most delicate care that the balances are correct. This every sister of the Bene Gesserit knows. To begin your study of the life of Maud'Dib, then, take care that you first place him in his time: born in the 57th year of the Padishah Emperor, Shaddam IV. And take the most special care that you locate Maud'Dib in his place: the planet Arrakis. Do not be deceived by the fact that he was born on Caladan and lived his first fifteen years there. Arrakis, the planet known as Dune, is forever his place."
"Each man is a little war."
"A voice hissed: 'He sheds tears!'It was taken around the ring 'Usal gives moisture to the dead!'He felt fingers touch his damp cheek, heard the awed whispers."
"A leader, you see, is one of the things that distinguishes a mob from a people. He maintains the level of individuals. Too few individuals, and a people reverts to a mob."
"There's steel in this man that no one has taken the temper out of..."
"The meeting between ignorance and knowledge, between brutality and culture - it begins in the dignity with which we treat the dead"
"Full moon calls thee-- Shai-hulud shall thou see; Red the night, dusky sky, Bloody death didst thou die. We pray to a moon: she is round-- Luck with us will then abound, What we seek for shall be found In the land of solid ground."
"I should've suspected trouble when the coffee failed to arrive."
"A ruler must learn to persuade and not to compel... he must lay the best coffee hearth to attract the finest men... a good ruler has to learn his world's language... it's different for every world... the language of the rocks and growing things... the language you don't hear just with your ears... the Mystery of Life... not a problem to solve, but a reality to experience... Understanding must move with the flow of the process."
"My lungs taste the air of Time,Blown past falling sands…"
"The day the flesh shapes and the flesh the day shapes."
"you've heard of animals chewing off a leg to escape a trap. there's an animal kind of trick. a human would remain in the trap endure the pain feigning death that he might kill the trapper and remove a threat to his kind."
"Be prepared to appreciate what you meet."
"The Proximity of a Desirable Thing Tempts One to Overindulgence. On That Path Lies Danger."
"When law and duty are one, united by religion, you never become fully conscious, fully aware of yourself. You are always a little less than an individual."
"She thought of the boy's features as an exquisite distillation out of random patterns-endless queues of happenstance meeting at this nexus."
"Respect for the truth comes close to being the basis for all morality. Something cannot emerge from nothing."
"Jessica stopped beside him: ‘What delicious abandon in the sleep of a child.’He spoke mechanically: ‘If only adults could relax like that.’ ‘Yes.’‘When do we lose it?’ He murmured…‘We do indeed lose something,’ she said."s
"My son displays a general garment and you claim it’s cut to your fit?" Jessica asked. "What a fascinating revelation."
"I observed you in pain, lad. Pain’s merely the axis of the test. Your mother’s told you about our ways of observing. I see the signs of her teaching in you. Our test is crisis and observation."
"you can’t buy security"
"Sad? Nonsense! Parting with friends is a sadness. A place is only a place."
"What was it St. Augustine said? 'The mind commands the body and it obeys. The mind orders itself and meets resistance."
"She asked me to tell her what it is to rule," Paul said. "And I said that one commands. And she said I had some unlearning to do." She hit a mark there right enough, Hawat thought. He nodded for Paul to continue. "She said a ruler must learn to persuade and not to compel. She said he must lay the best coffee hearth to attract the finest men."
"Are you already training my replacement? Piter demanded. 'Replace you? Why, Piter, where could I find another Mentat with your cunning and venom?''The same place you found me, Baron.''Perhaps I should at that,' the Baron mused. 'You do seem a bit unstable lately. And the spice you eat!''Are my pleasures too expensive, Baron? Do you object to them?''My dear Piter, your pleasures are what tie you to me. How could I object to that?"
"Beginnings are such delicate times."
"There was pain in him - like a blister, all that was left of some lost yesterday that Time had pruned off him."
"He learned rapidly because his first training was in how to learn. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult."
"El misterio de la vida no es problema que hay que resolver, sino una realidad que hay que experimentar."
"The universe is full of doors."
"My family sat in their pool courtyard,' Harah said, 'in air bathed by the moisture that arose from the spray of a fountain. There was a tree of portyguls, round and deep in color, near at hand. There was a basket with mish mish and baklawa and mugs of liban—all manner of good things to eat. In our gardens and, in our flocks, there was peace . . . peace in all the land.' 'Life was full with happiness until the raiders came,' Alia said. 'Blood ran cold at the scream of friends,' Jessica said. And she felt the memories rushing through her out of all those other pasts she shared. 'La, la, la, the women cried,' said Harah."
"Greatness is a transitory experience. It is never consistent."
"To accept a little death is worse than death itself."
"Mood?" Halleck’s voice betrayed his outrage even through the shield’s filtering. "What has mood to do with it? You fight when the necessity arises—no matter the mood! Mood’s a thing for cattle or making love or playing the baliset. It’s not for fighting."
"One should never presume one is the sole object of a hunt,"
"Do as she says, you wormfaced, crawling, sand-brained piece of lizard turd!"
"The terrain enforced its own rhythms."
"One must always keep the tools of statecraft sharp and ready. Power and fear – sharp and ready."
"Fortune passes everywhere."
"Humans live best when each has his own place, when each knows where he belongs in the scheme of things. Destroy the place and destroy the person."
"Where is Alia?' she asked.'Out doing what any good Fremen child should be doing in such times,' Paul said. 'She’s killing enemy wounded..."
"He realized suddenly that it was one thing to see the past occupying the present, but the true test of prescience was to see the past in the future. Things persisted in not being what they seemed."
"The real wealth of a planet is in its landscape, how we take part in that basic source of civilization- agriculture."
"Three quick breaths triggered the responses: he fell into the floating awareness... focusing the consciousness... aortal dilation... avoiding the unfocused mechanism of consciousness... to be conscious by choice... blood enriched and swift-flooding the overload regions... one does not obtain food-safety freedom by instinct alone... animal consciousness does not extend beyond the given moment nor into the idea that its victims may become extinct... the animal destroys and does not produce... animal pleasures remain close to sensation levels and avoid the perceptual... the human requires a background grid through which to see his universe... focused consciousness by choice, this forms your grid... bodily integrity follows nerve-blood flow according to the deepest awareness of cell needs... all things/cells/beings are impermanent... strive for flow-permanence within..."
"When strangers meet, great allowances should be made for differences in custom and training."
"On Caladan, we ruled with sea and air power,' the Duke said. 'Here, we must scrabble for desert power. This is your inheritance, Paul."
"There is no measuring Muad'Dib's motives by ordinary standards. In the moment of his triumph, he saw the death prepared for him, yet he accepted the treachery. Can you say he did this out of a sense of justice? Whose justice, then? Remember, we speak now of the Muad'Dib who ordered battle drums made from his enemies' skins, the Muad'Dib who denied the conventions of his ducal past with a wave of the hand, saying merely: 'I am the Kwisatz Haderach. That is reason enough."
"A plan depends as much upon execution as it does upon concept."
"There's an internally recognized beauty of motion and balance on any man-healthy planet,' Kynes said. 'You see in this beauty a dynamic stabilizing effect essential to all life. It's aim is simple: to maintain and produce coordinated patterns of greater and greater diversity. Life improves the closed system's capacity to sustain life. Life - all life - is in the service of life. Necessary nutrients are made available to life by life in greater and greater richness as the diversity of life increases. The entire landscape comes alive, filled with relationships and relationships within relationships."
"Life produces a different taste each time you take it."
"He was warrior and mystic, ogre and saint, the fox and the innocent, chivalrous, ruthless, less than a god, more than a man."
"God created Arrakis to train the faithful."
"My brother comes now,' Alia said. 'Even an Emperor may tremble before Muad'Dib, for he has the strength of righteousness and heaven smiles upon him."
"I have been a stranger in a strange land, Halleck quoted. Paul stared at him, recognizing the quotation from the O.C. Bible, wondering: Does Gurney, too, wish an end to devious plots?"
"Better a dry morsel and quietness therewith than a house full of sacrifice and strife."
"Life improves the closed system's capacity to sustain life. Life - all life - is in the service of life. Necessary nutrients are made available to life by life in greater and greater richness as the diversity of life increases. The entire landscape comes alive, filled with relationships and relationships within relationships."
"Don't sit with your back to any doors."
"The Reverend Mother must combine the seductive wiles of a courtesan with the untouchable majesty of a virgin goddess, holding these attributes in tension so long as the powers of her youth endure. For when youth and beauty have gone, she will find that the place-between, once occupied by tension, has become a wellspring of cunning and resourcefulness.  "
"One of the most terrible moments in a boy’s life," Paul said, "is when he discovers his father and mother are human beings who share a love that he can never quite taste. It’s a loss, an awakening to the fact that the world is there and here and we are in it alone. The moment carries its own truth; you can’t evade it. I heard my father when he spoke of my mother. She’s not the betrayer, Gurney."
"Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
"His thoughts were too vague to be described, but they comprehended mysterious elements."
"Who asks for justice? We make our own justice."
"I never could bring myself to trust a traitor," the Baron said. "Not even a traitor I created."
"Arrakis makes us moral and ethical."
"The old woman was a witch shadow—hair like matted spiderwebs, hooded ’round darkness of features, eyes like glittering jewels."
"The knife is more dangerous than the hand and the knife can be in either hand."
"We shouldn’t have tried to create new symbols," he said. We should’ve realized we weren’t supposed to introduce uncertainties into accepted belief, that we weren’t supposed to stir up curiosity about God. We are daily confronted by the terrifying instability of all things human, yet we permit our religions to grow more rigid and controlled, more conforming and oppressive. What is this shadow across the highway of Divine Command? It is a warning that institutions endure, that symbols endure when their meaning is lost, that there is no summa of all attainable knowledge.'Admission' of C.E.T. Chairman Toure Bomoko, in 'Appendix II: The Religion of Dune"
"Our civilization appears to’ve fallen so deeply into the habit of invasion that we cannot even obey a simple order of the Imperium without the old ways cropping up."
"Jessica, hearing the voices, felt the depth of the experience, realized what terrible inhibitions there must be against shedding tears. She focused on the words: "He gives moisture to the dead." It was a gift to the shadow world—tears. They would be sacred beyond a doubt."
"I'm the well-trained fruit tree. Full of well-trained feelings and abilities and all of them grafted onto me"
"To the east, the night grew a faggot of luminous grey, then seashell opalescence that dimmed the stars. There came the long, bell-tolling movement of dawn striking across a broken horizon."
"We Bene Gesserit sift people to find the humans."
"It is said in the desert that possession of water in great amount can inflict a man with fatal carelessness."
"The hunter does not seek dead game."
"Prophecy and prescience—How can they be put to the test in the face of the unanswered question? Consider: How much is actual prediction of the "wave form" (as Muad’Dib referred to his vision-image) and how much is the prophet shaping the future to fit the prophecy? What of the harmonics inherent in the act of prophecy? Does the prophet see the future or does he see a line of weakness, a fault or cleavage that he may shatter with words or decisions as a diamond-cutter shatters his gem with a blow of a knife?"
"You must learn to rule. It's something none of your ancestors learned."
"I am a leg of the death tripod that will destroy our foes."
"What have we here—jinn or human?"
"Sometimes I wonder about Piter,' the Baron said. 'I cause pain out of necessity, but he...I swear he takes a positive delight in it.'-Baron Vladimir"
"The body, learning a thing is good for it, interprets the flavor as pleasurable—slightly euphoric. And, like life, never to be truly synthesized."
"it’s a human trait that when we encounter personal problems, those things most deeply personal are the most difficult to bring out for our logic to scan. We tend to flounder around, blaming everything but the actual, deep-seated thing that’s really chewing on us."
"Greatness is a transitory experience. It is never consistent. It depends in part on the myth-making imagination of humankind. The person who experiences greatness must have a feeling for the myth he is in. He must reflect what is projected upon him."
"There is in all things a pattern that is part of our universe. It has symmetry, elegance, and grace—those qualities you find always in that which the true artist captures. You can find it in the turning of the seasons, in the way sand trails along a ridge, in the branch clusters of the creosote bush or the pattern of its leaves. We try to copy these patterns in our lives and our society, seeking the rhythms, the dances, the forms that comfort. Yet, it is possible to see peril in the finding of ultimate perfection. It is clear that the ultimate pattern contains its own fixity. In such perfection, all things move toward death."
"You must teach me someday how you do that," he said, "the way you thrust your worries aside and turn to practical matters. It must be a Bene Gesserit thing." "It’s a female thing," she said."
"In politics, the tripod is the most unstable of all structures."
"How would we flood village and city with our information? The people must learn how well I govern them. How would they know if we didn't tell them?"
"Seeing all the chattering faces, Paul was suddenly repelled by them. They were cheap masks locked on festering thoughts—voices gabbling to drown out the loud silence in every breast."
"Now, motivational patterns are going to be similar among all espionage agents. That is to say: there will be certain types of motivation that are similar despite differing schools or opposed aims. You will study first how to separate this element for your analysis—in the beginning, through interrogation patterns that betray the inner orientation of the interrogators; secondly, by close observation of language-thought orientation of those under analysis. You will find it fairly simple to determine the root languages of your subjects, of course, both through voice inflection and speech pattern."
"When God hath ordained a creature to die in a particular place, He causeth that creature’s wants to direct him to that place."
"Move slowly and the day of your revenge will come,' Tuek said. 'Speed is a device of Shaitan. Cool your sorrow–we’ve the diversions for it; three things there are that ease the heart–water, green grass, and the beauty of woman."
"Mood’s a thing for cattle or for making love. You fight when the necessity arises, no matter your mood."
"There are proven ways to win the loyalty of tough, strong, ferocious men: play on the certain knowledge of their superiority, the mystique of secret covenant, the esprit of shared suffering."
"At the age of fifteen, he had already learned silence."
"A good ruler has to learn his world's language, and that's different for every world, the language you don't hear just with your ears."
"Schools were started to train human talents... The Guild... emphasizes almost pure mathematics. Bene Gesserit performs... politics. The original Bene Gesserit school was directed by those who saw the need of a thread of continuity in human affairs. They saw there count be no such continuity without separating human stock from animal stock - for breeding purposes."
"He understood terrible purposes. They drove against all odds. They were their own necessity. Paul felt that he had been infected with terrible purpose. He did not know yet what the terrible purpose was."
"Time could be made to serve the mind."
"Em tempos, os homens entregavam o pensamento às máquinas, na esperança de que isso os libertasse. Mas só permitiu que outros homens com máquinas os escravizassem"
"Power and fear,' he said. 'The tools of statecraft."
"When we encounter personal problems, those things most deeply personal are the most difficult to bring out for our logic to scan."
"He passed off the loss of a spice crawler with a gesture. The threat to men’s lives had him in a rage. A leader such as that would command fanatic loyalty. He would be difficult to defeat."
"Black is a blind remembering, she thought. You listen for pack sounds, for the cries of those who hunted your ancestors in a past so ancient only your most primitive cells remember. The ears see. The nostrils see."
"His plan has good points and bad points...as any plan would at this stage. A plan depends as much upon execution as it does upon concept."
"How strange that so few people ever looked up from the spice long enough to wonder at the near-ideal nitrogen-oxygen-CO2 balance being maintained here in the absence of large areas of plant cover."
"It's a beautiful morning, Sire,' the guard said'Yes, it is.'The Duke nodded, thinking: Perhaps this planet could grow on one. Perhaps it could ba a good home for my son.Then he saw the human figures moving into the flower fields, sweeping with them strange scythe-like devices--dew gatherers. Water so precious here that even the dew must be collected.And it could be a hideous place, the Duke thought."
"But attack can take strange forms. And you will remember the tooth. The tooth. Duke Leto Atreides. You will remember the tooth.' -Dr.Yueh"
"My son will wear the title well, the Duke thought, and realized with a sudden chill that this was another death thought."
"My mother is my enemy. She does not know it, but she is. She is bringing the jihad. She bore me; she trained me. She is my enemy."
"Paul sensed his own tensions, decided to practice one of the mind-body lessons his mother had taught him. Three quick breaths triggered the responses: he fell into the floating awareness ... focusing the consciousness ... aortal dilation ... avoiding the unfocused mechanism of consciousness ... to be conscious by choice ... blood enriched and swift-flooding the overload regions ... one does not obtain food-safety-freedom by instinct alone ... animal consciousness does not extend beyond the given moment nor into the idea that its victims may become extinct ... the animal destroys and does not produce ... animal pleasures remain close to sensation levels and avoid the perceptual ... the human requires a background grid through which to see his universe ... focused consciousness by choice, this forms your grid ... bodily integrity follows nerve-blood flow according to the deepest awareness of cell needs ... all things/cells/beings are impermanent ... strive for flow-permanence within...."
"Chani sat back on her heels, submerging her fears in thought as she studied Paul’s face. This was a trick she had learned from watching the Reverend Mothers. Time could be made to serve the mind."
"Nothing wins more loyalty for a leader than an air of bravura,' the Duke said. 'I, therefore, cultivate an air of bravura."
"Even an Emperor may tremble before Muad’Dib, for he has the strength of righteousness and heaven smiles upon him."
"Tell me of thine eyesAnd I will tell thee of thy heart.Tell me of thy feetAnd I will tell thee of thy hands.Tell me of thy sleepingAnd I will tell thee of thy waking.Tell me of thy desiresAnd I will tell thee of thy need."
"What a dolt my father sends me for weaponry," Paul intoned. "This doltish Gurney Halleck has forgotten the first lesson for a fighting man armed and shielded." Paul snapped the force button at his waist, felt the crinkled-skin tingling of the defensive field at his forehead and down his back, heard external sounds take on characteristic shield-filtered flatness. "In shield fighting, one moves fast on defense, slow on attack," Paul said. "Attack has the sole purpose of tricking the opponent into a misstep, setting him up for the attack sinister. The shield turns the fast blow, admits the slow kindjal!" Paul snapped up the rapier, feinted fast and whipped it back for a slow thrust timed to enter a shield’s mindless defenses."
"I guess I’m not in the mood for it today," Paul said. "Mood?" Halleck’s voice betrayed his outrage even through the shield’s filtering. "What has mood to do with it? You fight when the necessity arises—no matter the mood! Mood’s a thing for cattle or making love or playing the baliset. It’s not for fighting."
"The Fremen have a simple, practical religion," he said."Nothing about religion is simple."
"When your opponent fears you, then’s the moment when you give the fear its own rein, give it the time to work on him. Let it become terror. The terrified man fights himself. Eventually, he attacks in desperation. That is the most dangerous moment, but the terrified man can be trusted usually to make a fatal mistake. You are being trained here to detect these mistakes and use them."
"Another might have missed the tension, but she had trained him in the Bene Gesserit Way - in the minutiae of observation."
"When a Truthsayer's gifted by the drug, she can look many places in her memory - in her body's memory. We look down so many avenues of the past... but only feminine avenues... Yet there's a place no Truthsayer can see. We are repelled by it, terrorized. It is said a man will come one day and find in the gift of the drug his inward eye. He will look where we cannot - into both feminine and masculine pasts... Many men have tried the drug... so many, but none has succeeded.''They tried and failed, all of them?''They tried and died."
"Once men turned their thinking over to machines in the hope that this would set them free. But that only permitted other men with machines to enslave them." " ‘Thou shalt not make a machine in the likeness of a man’s mind,"
"I knew Frank Herbert for more than thirty-eight years. He was a magnificent human being, a man of great honor and distinction, and the most interesting person at any gathering, drawing listeners around him like a magnet. To say he was an intellectual giant would be an understatement, since he seemed to contain all of the knowledge of the universe in his marvelous mind. He was my father, and I loved him deeply."
"The person who experiences greatness must have a feeling for the myth he is in. He must reflect what is projected upon him."
"Can you remember your first taste of spice?" "It tasted like cinnamon." "But never twice the same," he said. "It’s like life—it presents a different face each time you take it. Some hold that the spice produces a learned-flavor reaction. The body, learning a thing is good for it, interprets the flavor as pleasurable—slightly euphoric. And, like life, never to be truly synthesized."
"Fragmentation is the natural destiny of all power."
"Delay is as dangerous as the wrong answer."
"The historical system of mutual pillage and extortion stops here on Arrakis," his father said. "You cannot go on forever stealing what you need without regard to those who come after. The physical qualities of a planet are written into its economic and political record."
"Paul shrugged. "Then she said a good ruler has to learn his world’s language, that it’s different for every world. And I thought she meant they didn’t speak Galach on Arrakis, but she said that wasn’t it at all. She said she meant the language of the rocks and growing things, the language you don’t hear just with your ears. And I said that’s what Dr. Yueh calls the Mystery of Life." Hawat chuckled. "How’d that sit with her?" "I think she got mad. She said the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience."
"I must rule with eye and claw — as the hawk among lesser birds. - Duke Leto Atreides"
"How the mind gears itself for its environment, she thought. And she recalled a Bene Gesserit axiom: "The mind can go either direction under stress—toward positive or toward negative: on or off. Think of it as a spectrum whose extremes are unconsciousness at the negative end and hyperconsciousness at the positive end. The way the mind will lean under stress is strongly influenced by training."
"Shield!" the old woman snapped. "You well know the weakness there! Shield your son too much, Jessica, and he’ll not grow strong enough to fulfill any destiny."
"Color streamed into a toe of darkness testing the sand."
"The real universe is always one step behind logic."
"Piter spoke to Jessica. 'I'd thought of binding you by a threat held over your son, but I begin to see that would not have worked. I let emotion cloud reason. Bad policy for a Mentat."
"People need hard times and oppression to develop psychic muscles."
"Come, come,' the Baron said. 'We don't have much time and pain is quick. Please don't bring it to this, my dear Duke.' The Baron looked up at Piter who stood at Leto's shoulder. 'Piter doesn't have all his tools here, but I'm sure he could improvise.''Improvisation is sometimes the best, Baron."
"Do not count a human dead until you’ve seen his body. And even then you can make a mistake."
"We will never forgive and we will never forget."
"Grief is the price of victory,"
"How do we approach the study of Muad’Dib’s father? A man of surpassing warmth and surprising coldness was the Duke Leto Atreides. Yet, many facts open the way to this Duke: his abiding love for his Bene Gesserit lady; the dreams he held for his son; the devotion with which men served him. You see him there—a man snared by Destiny, a lonely figure with his light dimmed behind the glory of his son. Still, one must ask: What is the son but an extension of the father?"
"Axiom: the best place to conserve your water is in your body. It keeps your energy up. You’re stronger. Trust your stillsuit." She"
"That which submits rules."
"What’s a gom jabbar?"
"Mercy is a chimera."
"He uses the nice old words so rich in tradition to be sure I know he means it."
"When law and duty are one, united by religion, you never become fully conscious, fully aware of yourself. You are always a little less than an individual."
"Sietch: a meeting place in time of danger."
"I stood upon the sand of the sea and saw a beast rise up out of the sea…and upon his heads the name of blasphemy."
"For a moment, the sensation of coolness and the moisture were blessed relief. Then, as his planet killed him, it occurred to Kynes that his father and all the other scientists were wrong, that the most persistent principles of the universe were accident and error."
"Whirling silence settled around Jessica. Every fiber of her body accepted the fact that something profound had happened to it. She felt that she was a conscious mote, smaller than any subatomic particle, yet capable of motion and of sensing her surroundings. Like an abrupt revelation—the curtains whipped away—she realized she had become aware of a psychokinesthetic extension of herself. She was the mote, yet not the mote."
"Does the prophet see the future or does he see a line of weakness, a fault or cleavage that he may shatter with words or decisions as a diamond-cutter shatters his gem with a blow of a knife? —"
"You must teach me the way you thrust your worries aside and turn to practical matters."
"the drowning man who climbs on your shoulders to save himself is understandable—except when you see it happen in the drawing room."
"My father rules an entire planet.''He's losing it."
"Isn’t it odd how we misunderstand the hidden unity of kindness and cruelty?" Jessica"
"they’d chosen always the clear, safe course that leads ever downward into stagnation."
"The mind can go either direction under stress—toward positive or toward negative:"
"It was another of the essential ingredients that she felt her son needed: people with a goal. Such people would be easy to imbue with fervor and fanaticism. They could be wielded like a sword to win back Paul’s place for him."
"We are the people of Misr," the old woman rasped. "Since our Sunni ancestors fled from Nilotic al-Ourouba, we have known flight and death. The young go on that our people shall not die."
"Then she said a good ruler has to learn his world’s language, that it’s different for every world. And I thought she meant they didn’t speak Galach on Arrakis, but she said that wasn’t it at all. She said she meant the language of the rocks and growing things, the language you don’t hear just with your ears. And I said that’s what Dr. Yueh calls the Mystery of Life." Hawat chuckled. "How’d that sit with her?" "I think she got mad. She said the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience. So I quoted the First Law of Mentat at her: 'A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join it and flow with it."
"It’d be bad enough without the complication of a feudal trade culture which turns its back on most science."
"I see the signs!" Jessica snapped. "My question was meant to remind you that you should not try to teach me those matters in which I instructed you." Paul"
"Ah, Hah! But you see, Baron, I know as a Mentat when you will send the executioner. You will hold back just so long as I am useful. To move sooner would be wasteful and I'm yet of much use. I know what it is you learned from that lovely Dune planet - waste not? True, Baron?-Piter De Vries"
"The highest function of ecology is understanding consequences."
"A single obscure decision of prophecy, perhaps the choice of one word over another, could change the entire aspect of the future. He tells us 'The vision of time is broad, but when you pass through it, time becomes a narrow door."
"All men beneath your position covet your station,"
"Ah! Indeed but! But he consumes too much spice, eats it like candy. Look at his eyes! He might have come directly from the Arrakeen labor pool. Efficient, Piter, but he's still emotional and prone to passionate outbursts. Efficient, Piter, but he still can err. -Baron Vladimir"
"the proximity of a desirable thing tempts one to overindulgence."
"I’ll never be a Mentat," he said. "I’m something else…a freak."
"She said the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience. So I quoted the First Law of Mentat at her: ‘A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join it and flow with it."
"He found that he no longer could hate the Bene Gesserit or the Emperor or even the Harkonnens. They were all caught up in the need of their race to renew its scattered inheritance, to cross and mingle and infuse their bloodlines in a great new pooling of genes. And the race knew only one sure way for this—the ancient way, the tried and certain way that rolled over everything in its path: jihad. Surely,"
"This world has emptied me of all but the oldest purpose: tomorrow’s life. I live now for my young Duke and the daughter yet to be. She"
"She’s the One all right," she muttered. "Poor thing."
"Gurney says there’s no artistry in killing with the tip, that it should be done with the edge."
"Once, men turned their thinking over to machines in the hope that this would set them free."
"Can you remember your first taste of spice?" "It tasted like cinnamon."
"it occurred to Kynes that his father and all the other scientists were wrong, that the most persistent principles of the universe were accident and error. Even"
"And he realized with an abrupt sense shock that he had been giving more and more reliance to prescient memory and it had weakened him for this particular emergency."
"And he thought then about the Guild—the force that had specialized for so long that it had become a parasite, unable to exist independently of the life upon which it fed. They had never dared grasp the sword…and now they could not grasp it. They might have taken Arrakis when they realized the error of specializing on the melange awareness-spectrum narcotic for their navigators. They could have done this, lived their glorious day and died. Instead, they’d existed from moment to moment, hoping the seas in which they swam might produce a new host when the old one died."
"He felt the inability to grieve as a terrible flaw."
"So I quoted the First Law of Mentat at her: ‘A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join it and flow with it."
"Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past me I will turn to see fear’s path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
"Men and their works have been a disease on the surface of their planets [...] Nature tends to compensate for diseases, to remove or encapsulate them, to incorporate them into the system in her own way."
"Men looked at their gods and their rituals and saw that both were filled with that most terrible of all equations: fear over ambition."
"But the test of a man isn’t what you think he’ll do. It’s what he actually does."
"Men and their works have been a disease on the surface of their planets before now. Nature tends to compensate for diseases, to remove or encapsulate them, to incorporate them into the system in her own way."
"Feints within feints within feints."
"Sad? Nonsense! Parting with friends is a sadness. A place is only a place." He glanced at the charts on the table. "And Arrakis is just another place."
"I’m the well-trained fruit tree, he thought. Full of well-trained feelings and abilities and all of them grafted onto me—all bearing for someone else to pick."
"Review, friends—troops long past review," the Duke intoned. "All to fate a weight of pains and dollars. Their spirits wear our silver collars. Review, friends—troops long past review: Each a dot of time without pretense or guile. With them passes the lure of fortune. Review, friends—troops long past review. When our time ends on its rictus smile, we’ll pass the lure of fortune."
"When you take your stand along the maker's path, you must remain utterly still. You must think like a patch of sand. Hide beneath your cloak and become a little dune in your very essence."
"You never talk of likelihoods on Arrakis. You speak only of possibilities."
"attempt seeing Truth without knowing Falsehood. It is the attempt to see the Light without knowing Darkness. It cannot be."
"There’s an internally recognized beauty of motion and balance on any man-healthy planet," Kynes said. "You see in this beauty a dynamic stabilizing effect essential to all life. Its aim is simple: to maintain and produce coordinated patterns of greater and greater diversity. Life improves the closed system’s capacity to sustain life. Life—all life—is in the service of life. Necessary nutrients are made available to life by life in greater and greater richness as the diversity of life increases. The entire landscape comes alive, filled with relationships and relationships within relationships." This"
"It doesn't follow that the riots mean permanent hostility toward him."
"THE DUKE Leto Atreides leaned against a parapet of the landing control tower outside Arrakeen. The night’s first moon, an oblate silver coin, hung well above the southern horizon. Beneath it, the jagged cliffs of the Shield Wall shone like parched icing through a dust haze. To his left, the lights of Arrakeen glowed in the haze—yellow . . . white . . . blue."
"The Fremen! They’re paying the Guild for privacy, paying in a coin that’s freely available to anyone with desert power—spice."
"The natural human´s an animal without a logic. Your projection of logic onto all affairs is unnatural."
"The tribal commander must lose no face among those who should obey him. Paul"
"When religion and politics ride the same cart, when that cart is driven by a living holy man (baraka), nothing can stand in their path."
"As long as my Duke remains unmarried some of the Great Houses can still hope for alliance."
"Don’t be so sure you know where to draw the line," he said. "We carry our past with us. And, mother mine, there’s a thing you don’t know and should—we are Harkonnens." Her"
"Gurney’s a romantic," the Duke growled. This talk of killing suddenly disturbed him, coming from his son. "I’d sooner you never had to kill…but if the need arises, you do it however you can—tip or edge." He looked up at the skylight, on which the rain was drumming."
"I’m like a person whose hands were kept numb, without sensation from the first moment of awareness—until one day the ability to feel is forced into them. The thought hung in her mind, an enclosing awareness. And I say: "Look! I have no hands!" But the people all around me say: "What are hands?"
"If he could smell the pre-spice mass, that meant the gasses deep under the sand were nearing explosive pressure."
"And the price we paid was the price men have always paid for achieving a paradise in this life -we went soft, we lost our edge."
"Arrakis teaches the attitude of the knife—chopping off what’s incomplete and saying: "Now, it’s complete because it’s ended here."
"off in strata of porous rock by the leathery half-plant, half-animal little makers—and"
"He doesn’t appear much, does he—one frightened old fat man too weak to support his own flesh without the help of suspensors." It"
"And he thought: I’m a seed. He"
"Somewhere beneath him, the pre-spice mass had accumulated enough water and organic matter from the little makers, had reached the critical stage of wild growth. A gigantic bubble of carbon dioxide was forming deep in the sand, heaving upward in an enormous "blow" with a dust whirlpool at its center. It would exchange what had been formed deep in the sand for whatever lay on the surface. The"
"the most persistent principles of the universe were accident and error. Even"
"Yes. They’ll call me…Muad’Dib, ‘The One Who Points the Way.’ Yes…that’s what they’ll call me." And"
"The Harkonnens discouraged investigation of the spice, didn’t they?"
"Control the coinage and the courts—let the rabble have the rest." Thus the Padishah Emperor advised you. And he tells you: "If you want profits, you must rule." There is truth in these words, but I ask myself: "Who are the rabble and who are the ruled?"
"There’s another thing, Jessica thought. Paul must be cautioned about their women. One of these desert women would not do as wife to a Duke. As concubine, yes, but not as wife."
"he fought the temptation to choose a clear, safe course, warning "That path leads ever down into stagnation." —"
"Climb the mountain just a little bit to test that it’s a mountain. From the top of the mountain, you cannot see the mountain."
"Paul stepped past her, lifting his binoculars. He adjusted their internal pressure with a quick twist, focused the oil lenses on the other cliff, lifting golden tan in morning light across open sand. Jessica"
"Combine Honnete Ober Advancer Mercantiles—the CHOAM Company."
"people with a goal. Such people would be easy to imbue with fervor and fanaticism."
"Pride overcame Paul's fear. 'You dare suggest a duke's son is an animal?' he demanded.'Let us say I suggest you may be human,' she said. 'Steady! I warn you not to try jerking away. I am old, but my hand can drive this needle into your neck before you escape me."
"Surely not a palm lock, she told herself. A palm lock must be keyed to one individual’s hand shape and palm lines. But it looked like a palm lock. And there were ways to open any palm lock—as she had learned at school."
"It was a scene of such beauty it caught all his attention. Some things beggar likeness, he thought. He"
"They’ve also sent some incidental things—jewelry for the Lady Jessica, spice liquor, candy, medicinals. My men are processing the lot right now."
"It supports a ruling class that lives as ruling classes have lived in all times while, beneath them, a semihuman mass of semislaves exists on the leavings…"
"You see, Count, I have the Emperor’s prison planet, Salusa Secundus, to inspire me." The"
"How would you like to live billions upon billions of lives?" Paul asked. "There’s a fabric of legends for you! Think of all those experiences, the wisdom they’d bring. But wisdom tempers love, doesn’t it? And it puts a new shape on hate. How"
"Then came the Butlerian Jihad—two generations of chaos. The god of machine-logic was overthrown among the masses and a new concept was raised: "Man may not be replaced." Those"
"Where Thufir Hawat goes, death and deceit follow."
"Malign? I praise him. Death and deceit are our only hopes now. I just do not fool myself about Thufir’s methods."
"We pray to a moon: she is round— Luck with us will then abound, What we seek for shall be found In the land of solid ground."
"They’d never known anything but victory which, Paul realized, could be a weakness in itself. He put that thought aside for later consideration in his own training program."
"We don’t die easily. I should be dead now... I will be dead soon... but I can’t stop being an ecologist."
"This is likely one of the roots of Fremen emphasis on superstition (disregarding the Missionaria Protectiva’s ministrations). What matter that whistling sands are an omen? What matter that you must make the sign of the fist when first you see First Moon? A man’s flesh is his own and his water belongs to the tribe—and the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve but a reality to experience. Omens help you remember this. And because you are here, because you have the religion, victory cannot evade you in the end."
"learned rapidly because his first training was in how to leam. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult."
"Paul looked down at the hand that had known pain, and then up to the Reverend Mother. The sound of her voice contained a difference than from any other voicing his experience. The words were outlined in brilliance. There was an edge to them."
"What senses do we lack that we can not see or hear another world all around us?"
"his first training was in how to learn. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult."
"You cannot avoid the interplay of politics within an orthodox religion. This power struggle permeates the training, educating and disciplining of the orthodox community. Because of this pressure, the leaders of such a community inevitably must face that ultimate internal question: to succumb to complete opportunism as the price of maintaining their rule, or risk sacrificing themselves for the sake of the orthodox ethic."
"you of the fact that a deaf person cannot hear. Then, what deafness may we not all possess? What senses do we lack that we cannot see and cannot hear another world all around us? What is there around us that we cannot—"
"There's coffee for those who want it,' the Duke said."
"Sir, I honor and respect the personal dignity of any man who respects my dignity."
"The willow submits to the wind and prospers until one day it is many willows—a wall against the wind. This is the willow’s purpose."
"The Fremen have a saying they credit to Shai-hulud, Old Father Eternity,’ he said. ‘They say: "Be prepared to appreciate what you meet."
"All around the Lady Jessica—piled in corners of the Arrakeen great hall, mounded in the open spaces—stood the packaged freight of their lives: boxes, trunks, cartons, cases—some partly unpacked."
"The people must learn how well I govern them. How would they know if we didn’t tell them?"
"You must cultivate ecological literacy among the people."
"The night is a tunnel, she thought, a hole into tomorrow…"
"A world is supported by four things... the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these are as nothing...without a ruler who knows the art of ruling."
"He’s awake and listening to us," said the old woman. "Sly little rascal." She chuckled. "But royalty has need of slyness. And if he’s really the Kwisatz Haderach…well…."
"Paul sat back. He had used the questions and hyperawareness to do what his mother called "registering" the person. He had Kynes now—tone of voice, each detail of face and gesture."
"I will await below," Stilgar said, "while Idaho makes farewell with his friends. Turok was the name of our dead friend. Remember that when it comes time to release his spirit. You are friends of Turok."
"A smile touched Piter’s lips. "And to think, Baron: the Padishah Emperor believes he’s given the Duke your spice planet. How poignant."
"I told my nephew of the great esteem our Emperor holds for you, Count Fenring," the Baron said. And he thought: Mark him well, Feyd! A killer with the manners of a rabbit—this is the most dangerous kind."
"In politics, the tripod is he most unstable of all structures. It's be bad enough without the complication of a feudal trade culture which turns its back on most science."
"For the others, we can say that Muad’Dib learned rapidly because his first training was in how to learn. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad’Dib knew that every experience carries its lesson. —"
"How many times must I tell that lad never to settle himself with his back to a door?"
"He aspires to rule my Barony, yet he cannot rule himself."
"Umman Kudu: scissors-line of jaw muscles, chin like a boot toe - a man to be trusted because the captain's vices were known."
"There are those among my young men who have reached the age of wild spirits,’ he said. ‘They must be eased through this period. I must leave no great reasons around for them to challenge me. Because I would have to maim and kill among them. This is not the proper course for a leader if it can be avoided with honor. A leader, you see, is one of the things that distinguishes a mob from a people. He maintains the level of individuals. Too few individuals, and a people reverts to a mob."
"In that instant, Paul saw how Stilgar had been transformed from the Fremen naib to a creature of the Lisan al-Gaib, a receptacle for awe and obedience. It was a lessening of the man, and Paul felt the ghost-wind of the jihad in it."
"It should be one of the tests," the old woman said. "Humans are almost always lonely."
"Piter: Ah-ah, Baron! Is it not regrettable you were unable to devise this delicious scheme by yourself?Baron: Someday I will have you strangled, Piter.Piter: Of a certainty, Baron. Enfin! But a kind act is never lost, eh?Baron: Have you been chewing verite or semuta, Piter?"
"It became apparent to the Fremen that Kynes was not a madman totally, just mad enough to be holy."
"Piter"
"The most perfect barrier to learning a thing is the belief that is it already known"
"My father once told me that respect for truth comes close to being the basis for all morality."
"This Duke was concerned more over the men than he was over the spice. He risked his own life and that of his son to save the men. He passed off the loss of a spice crawler with a gesture. The threat to men’s lives had him in a rage. A leader such as that would command fanatic loyalty. He would be difficult to defeat. Against his own will and all previous judgments, Kynes admitted to himself: I like this Duke."
"The eye that looks ahead to the safe course is closed forever."
"That which makes a man superhuman is terrifying."
"Fate was sometimes inscrutable."
"what other society would have such a natural regard for her privacy and comfort that the giver would intrude only enough to deposit the gift and not inflict her with the donor?"
"Pain," she sniffed. "A human can override any nerve in the body."
"He straightened, assuming an odd attitude of dignity – as though it were another mask."
"She sighed. "Thufir, I want you to examine your own emotional involvement in this. The natural human’s an animal without logic. Your projections of logic onto all affairs is unnatural, but suffered to continue for its usefulness. You’re the embodiment of logic—a Mentat. Yet, your problem solutions are concepts that, in a very real sense, are projected outside yourself, there to be studied and rolled around, examined from all sides." "You think now to teach me my trade?" he asked, and he did not try to hide the disdain in his voice. "Anything outside yourself, this you can see and apply your logic to it," she said. "But it’s a human trait that when we encounter personal problems, those things most deeply personal are the most difficult to bring out for our logic to scan. We tend to flounder around, blaming everything but the actual, deep-seated thing that’s really chewing on us."
"You have a nicety of awareness of the difference between a blade's edge and its tip."
"Given the right lever you can move a planet."
"Paul felt that he had been infected with terrible purpose. He did not know yet what the terrible purpose was."
"I need time now to consider the future that is a past within my mind."
"We have two chief survivors of those ancient schools: the Bene Gesserit and the Spacing Guild. The Guild, so we think, emphasizes almost pure mathematics. Bene Gesserit performs another function."
"Kindness is the beginning of cruelty."
"Paul took a place in the line behind Chani. He had put down the black feeling at being caught by the girl. In his mind now was the memory called up by his mother’s barked reminder: "My son’s been tested with the gom jabbar!" He found that his hand tingled with remembered pain."
"When you live upon Arrakis," she had said, "khala, the land is empty. The moons will be your friends, the sun your enemy."
"The Atreides are known to start late getting there growth."
"The Duke said: "Paul, I’m doing a hateful thing, but I must." He stood beside the portable poison snooper that had been brought into the conference room for their breakfast. The thing’s sensor arms hung limply over the table, reminding Paul of some weird insect newly dead. The Duke’s"
"Much that was called religion has carried an unconscious attitude of hostility toward life. True religion must teach that life is filled with joys pleasing to the eye of God, that knowledge without action is empty. All men must see that the teaching of religion by rules and rote is largely a hoax."
"Paul crouched at the ready and, as he had been trained to do after first blood, called out: "Do you yield?"
"He could close his eyes and recall the shouts of the crowds. So that is what they hope, he thought. And he remembered what the old Reverend Mother had said: Kwisatz Haderach. The memories touched his feelings of terrible purpose, shading this strange world"
"A world is supported by four things…." She held up four big-knuckled fingers. "…the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these are as nothing…." She closed her fingers into a fist. "…without a ruler who knows the art of ruling. Make that"
"The proper teaching is recognized with ease. You can know it without fail because it awakens within you that sensation which tells you this is something you’ve always known." There"
"Do not make the error of considering my son a child," the Duke said. And he smiled."
"Then she said a good ruler has to learn his world’s language, that it’s different for every world. And I thought she meant they didn’t speak Galach on Arrakis, but she said that wasn’t it at all. She said she meant the language of the rocks and growing things, the language you don’t hear just with your ears."
"Paul sat silently in the darkness, a single stark thought dominating his awareness: My mother is my enemy. She does not know it, but she is. She is bringing the jihad. She bore me; she trained me. She is my enemy."
"It's shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult."
"the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve but a reality to experience. Omens help you remember this. And because you are here, because you have the religion, victory cannot evade you in the end. As"
"The prescience, he realized, was an illumination that incorporated the limits of what it revealed- at once a source of accuracy and meaningful error. A kind of Heisenberg indeterminacy intervened: the expenditure of energy that revealed what he saw, changed what he saw.And what he saw was a time nexus within this cave, a boiling of possibilities focused here, wherein the most minute action - the wink of an eye, a careless word, a misplaced grain of sand - moved a gigantic lever across the known universe. He saw violence with the outcome subject to so many variables that his slightest movement created vast shiftings in the patterns.The vision made him want to freeze into immobility, but this, too was action with its consequences."
"You should fear me, Mother. I am the Kwisatz Haderach." Jessica"
"You shall be known among us as Usul, the base of the pillar. This is your secret name, your troop name. We of Sietch"
"How do you call among you the little mouse, the mouse that jumps?" Paul asked, remembering the pop-hop of motion at Tuono Basin. He illustrated with one hand. A chuckle sounded through the troop. "We call that one muad’dib," Stilgar said. Jessica"
"Shishakli presented two thin, whiplike shafts as Paul approached. The shafts were about a meter and a half long with glistening plasteel hoods at one end, roughened at the other end for a firm grip. Paul accepted them both in his left hand as required by the ritual. "They are my own hooks," Shishakli said in a husky voice. "They never have failed."
"Too few individuals, and a people reverts to a mob."
"They compose poems to their knives."
"She had quoted a Bene Gesserit proverb to him: "When religion and politics travel in the same cart, the riders believe nothing can stand in their way. Their movement becomes headlong—faster and faster and faster. They put aside all thought of obstacles and forget that a precipice does not show itself to the man in a blind rush until it’s too late." Paul"
"Is that the name you wish, Muad’Dib?" Stilgar asked. "I am an Atreides," Paul whispered, and then louder: "It’s not right that I give up entirely the name my father gave me. Could I be known among you as Paul-Muad’Dib?" "You are Paul-Muad’Dib," Stilgar said. And"
"Once, men turned their thinking over to machines in the hope that this would set them free. But that only permitted other men with machines to enslave them."
"I will tell you a thing about your new name," Stilgar said. "The choice pleases us. Muad’Dib is wise in the ways of the desert. Muad’Dib creates his own water. Muad’Dib hides from the sun and travels in the cool night. Muad’Dib is fruitful and multiplies over the land. Muad’Dib we call ‘instructor-of-boys.’ That is a powerful base on which to build your life, Paul-Muad’Dib, who is Usul among us. We welcome you." Stilgar"
"We change our past by what we learn."
"You must be always hungry and thirsty." The Baron caressed his bulges beneath the suspensors. "Like me."
"The man without emotions is the one to fear."
"We bribe the Guild with a monstrous payment in spice to keep our skies clear of satellites and such that none may spy what we do to the face of Arrakis." She"
"wormfaced, crawling, sand-brained piece of lizard turd!"
"The willow submits to the wind and prospers until one day it is many willows—a wall against the wind."
"Maker—their word for worm,"
"forever seeking, forever prepared and forever unready."
"A duke's son MUST know about poisons. It's the way of our times."
"They’ve lost the initiative, which means they’ve lost the war." Gurney"
"And that day dawned when Arrakis lay at the hub of the universe with the wheel poised to spin."
"He realized suddenly that it was one thing to see the past occupying the present, but the true test of prescience was to see the past in the future."
"Memories rolled in his mind like the toothless mutterings of old women."
"and the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve but a reality to experience."
"we can say that Muad’Dib learned rapidly because his first training was in how to learn. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad"
"Paul sat down where Hawat had been, straightened the papers. One more day here, he thought. He looked around the room. We’re leaving. The idea of departure was suddenly more real to him than it had ever been before. He recalled another thing the old woman had said about a world being the sum of many things—the people, the dirt, the growing things, the moons, the tides, the suns—the unknown sum called nature, a vague summation without any sense of the now. And he wondered: What is the now?"
"Is it defeatist or treacherous for a doctor to diagnose a disease correctly?"
"Your own emperor bestowed Arrakis on House Atreides. I am House Atreides." The"
"She didn’t like the fact that people of both sietch and graben referred to Muad’Dib as Him."
"These things are so ancient within us," Paul said, "that they’re ground into each separate cell of our bodies. We’re shaped by such forces. You can say to yourself, ‘Yes, I see how such a thing may be.’ But when you look inward and confront the raw force of your own life unshielded, you see your peril. You see that this could overwhelm you. The greatest peril to the Giver is the force that takes. The greatest peril to the Taker is the force that gives. It’s as easy to be overwhelmed by giving as by taking."
"I have another kind of sight. I see another kind of terrain: the available paths. The"
"Can you take him, Gurney?" "M’Lord jests!"
"He's taking the change well?' She asked.Except for getting a bit overtired. He's excited, but what 15-year-old wouldn't be under these circumstances?"
"They displayed a sophistication in warfare as good as anything he had ever encountered, and he had been trained by the best fighters in the universe then seasoned in battles where only the superior few survived."
"Superb accuracy in water measurement, Jessica thought. And she noted that the walls of the meter trough held no trace of moisture after the water’s passage. The water flowed off those walls without binding tension. She saw a profound clue to Fremen technology in the simple fact: they were perfectionists."
"Deep in the human unconscious is a pervasive need for a logical universe that makes sense. But the real universe is always one step beyond logic. —FROM "THE SAYINGS OF MUAD’DIB" BY THE PRINCESS IRULAN"
"«Cualquier camino, si se sigue hasta el fin, no conduce exactamente a ningún lugar. Escalad tan sólo un poco la montaña para comprobar si es una montaña. Desde la cima de la montaña, no podréis ver la montaña.»"
"the most persistent principles of the universe were accident and error. Even the hawks could appreciate these facts."
"boy’s features as an exquisite distillation out of random patterns—endless queues of happenstance meeting at this nexus."
"Control the coinage and the courts—let the rabble have the rest."
"Speed is a device of Shaitan"
"For when youth and beauty have gone, she will find that the place-between, once occupied by tension, has become a wellspring of cunning and resourcefulness."
"Jessica stared at her son, seeing the oval shape of face so like her own. But the hair was the Duke’s—coal-colored and tousled. Long lashes concealed the lime-toned eyes. Jessica smiled, feeling her fears retreat. She was suddenly caught by the idea of genetic traces in her son’s features—her lines in eyes and facial outline, but sharp touches of the father peering through that outline like maturity emerging from childhood. She thought of the boy’s features as an exquisite distillation out of random patterns—endless queues of happenstance meeting at this nexus."
"No more terrible disaster could befall your people than for them to fall into the hands of a Hero,"
"You will address me as Sire or my Lord," Paul said."
"The Baron could see the path ahead of him. One day, a Harkonnen would be Emperor. Not himself, and no spawn of his loins. But a Harkonnen. Not this Rabban he’d summoned, of course. But"
"Life improves the closed system’s capacity to sustain life. Life—all life—is in the service of life."
"Bitterness I understand," the Duke said. "But let us not rail about justice as long as we have arms and the freedom to use them."
"I must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain.’ He"
"You have no idea how much consternation this restraint created in the Royal Creche. Subtlety and self-control were, after all, the most deadly threats to us all."
"And again he remembered the vision of fanatic legions following the green and black banner of the Atreides, pillaging and burning across the universe in the name of their prophet Muad’Dib. That must not happen, he told himself."
"She asked me to tell her what it is to rule," Paul said. "And I said that one commands. And she said I had some unlearning to do."
"Arrakis, the planet known as Dune, is forever his place."
"She said the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience."
"Yes! See him there, this man who believes he cannot be bought. See him detained there by a million shares of himself sold in dribbles every second of his life! If you took him up now and shook him, he’d rattle inside. Emptied! Sold out! What difference how he dies now?"
"There is enough water! But Kynes doesn't wish it to be known."
"But he felt nothing except: Here’s an important fact. It was one with all the other facts."
"The Duke felt in this moment that his own dearest dream was to end all class distinctions and never again think of deadly order."
"There was a thick welling of blood that stopped almost immediately. Ultrafast coagulation, Jessica thought. A moisture-conserving mutation"
"And Jessica, noting the words and manner, caught the deeper implications in the phrase, "the body’s water."
"question"
"I guess I’m not in the mood for it today," Paul said. "Mood?" Halleck’s voice betrayed his outrage even through the shield’s filtering. "What has mood to do with it? You fight when the necessity arises—no matter the mood! Mood’s a thing for cattle or making love or playing the baliset. It’s not for fighting." "I’m sorry, Gurney." "You’re not sorry enough!" Halleck activated his own shield, crouched with kindjal outthrust in left hand, the rapier poised high in his right. "Now I say guard yourself for true!" He leaped high to one side, then forward, pressing a furious attack."
"Jessica closed her eyes, feeling tears press out beneath the lids. She fought down the inner trembling, the outer trembling, the uneven breathing, the ragged pulse, the sweating of the palms. Presently, she said, "I’ll pay for my own mistake." "And your son will pay with you." "I’ll shield him as well as I’m able." "Shield!" the old woman snapped. "You well know the weakness there! Shield your son too much, Jessica, and he’ll not grow strong enough to fulfill any destiny."
"In the moonlight and reflection off gray stone, Paul saw a small figure in Fremen robes, a shadowed face peering out at him from the hood, and the muzzle of one of the projectile weapons aimed at him from a fold of robe. "I am Chani, daughter of Liet."
"I’m getting old, he thought. I’ve felt the cold hand of my mortality. And in what? An old woman’s greed."
"I have little to do with how you’ll meet tomorrow, Gurney Halleck. I can only help you meet today." "Then I’ll accept that help and stay until"
"The mind commands the body and it obeys. The mind orders itself and meets resistance"
"Thufir, I want you to examine your own emotional involvement in this. The natural human’s an animal without logic. Your projections of logic onto all affairs is unnatural, but suffered to continue for its usefulness. You’re the embodiment of logic—a Mentat. Yet, your problem solutions are concepts that, in a very real sense, are projected outside yourself, there to be studied and rolled around, examined from all sides."
"Che cosa disprezzi? È da questo che ti si conosce veramente."
"them. Paul slipped out his nose plugs, swung the mouth baffle aside. The odor of the place assailed him: unwashed bodies, distillate esthers of reclaimed wastes, everywhere the sour effluvia of humanity with, over it all, a turbulence of spice and spicelike harmonics."
"their faces masked by smiles."
"Religion must remain an outlet for people who say to themselves, ‘I am not the kind of person I want to be.’ It must never sink into an assemblage of the self-satisfied."
"Beyond a critical point within a finite space, freedom diminishes as numbers increase."
"Someday I’ll catch that man without a quotation and he’ll look undressed," the Duke said."
"Beyond a critical point within a finite space, freedom diminishes as numbers increase. This is as true of humans in the finite space of a planetary ecosystem as it is of gas molecules in a sealed flask. The human question is not how many can possibly survive within the system, but what kind of existence is possible for those who do survive. —PARDOT KYNES,FIRST PLANETOLOGIST OF ARRAKIS"
"In the silence that came between them, a breeze from a ventilator could be heard fingering the blinds."
"The birds were a blurred patch on silver-blue sky—distant flecks of soot floating above him."
"Whether a thought is spoken or not it is a real thing and has powers of reality."
"I think she got mad. She said the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience. So I quoted the First Law of Mentat at her: ‘A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join it and flow with it.’ That seemed to satisfy her."
"A world is supported by four things: the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these things are as nothing without a ruler who knows the art of ruling."
"Usul, you’re crying," Chani murmured. "Usul, my strength,"
"They were cheap masks locked on festering thoughts—voices gabbling to drown out the loud silence in every breast."
"un precipicio se descubre siempre demasiado tarde»."
"[...] growth itself can produce unfavorable conditions unless treated with extreme care."
"a precipice does not show itself to the man in a blind rush until it’s too late."
"Black is a blind remembering,"
"Our supremacy on Caladan," the Duke said, "depended on sea and air power. Here, we must develop something I choose to call desert power. This"
"Paul raised his voice: 'Observe her, comrades! This is a Bene Gesserit Reverend Mother, patient in a patient cause. She could wait with her sisters -- ninety generations for the proper combination of genes and environment to produce the one person their schemes required. Observe her! She knows now that the ninety generations have produced that person. Here I stand . . . but . . . I . . . will . . . never . . . do . . . her . . . bidding!"
"May this place give you as much pleasure as it has given me. Please permit the room to convey a lesson we learned from the same teachers: the proximity of a desirable thing tempts one to overindulgence. On that path lies danger."
"Hayatın sırrının çözülecek bir problem değil, tecrübe edilecek bir gerçeklik olduğunu söyledi. Ben de Mentatlığın İlk Yasası'nı söyledim: 'Bir süreç onu durdurarak anlaşılamaz. İdrak sürecin akışıyla birlikte gerçekleşmeli, ona katılmalı ve onunla birlikte akmalıdır."
"It's my storm,' Paul said [...] 'Though it shook the entire world it could not be more than I wished."
"sift people to find the humans."
"Woman is thy field; go then to thy field and till it."
"Give as few orders as possible," his father had told him … once… long ago. "Once you’ve given orders on a subject, you must always give orders on that subject."
"To the people whose labors go beyond ideas into the realm of "real materials"—to the dry-land ecologists, wherever they may be, in whatever time they work, this effort at prediction is dedicated in humility and admiration."
"I’ll sheath my knife in your blood," Jamis snarled. And in the middle of the last word he pounced."
"Most educated people know that the worst potential competition for any young organism can come from its own kind... They are eating from the same bowl. They have the same basic requirements"
"chaumurky)"
"A world is supported by four things... the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these are nothing without a ruler who knows the art of ruling."
"the way you thrust your worries aside and turn to practical matters. It must be a Bene Gesserit thing." "It’s a female thing," she said."
"want their willing cooperation, Gurney. Those men have experience and skills we need. The fact that they’re leaving suggests they’re not part of the Harkonnen machine. Hawat believes there could be some bad ones planted in the group, but he sees assassins in every shadow." "Thufir has found some very productive shadows in his time, m’Lord." "And there are some he hasn’t found. But I think planting sleepers in this outgoing crowd would show too much imagination for the Harkonnens." "Possibly, Sire. Where are these men?" "Down on the lower level, in a waiting room. I suggest you go down and play a tune or two to soften their minds, then turn on the pressure. You may offer positions of authority"
"Muad’Dib: "If a child, an untrained person, an ignorant person, or an insane person incites trouble, it is the fault of authority for not predicting and preventing that trouble." O.C."
"The mind commands the body and it obeys. The mind orders itself and meets resistance." Yes—I am meeting more resistance lately. I could use a quiet retreat by myself. A"
"It’s the look of terrible awareness, she thought, of someone forced to the knowledge of his own mortality."
"The human question is not how many can possibly survive within the system, but what kind of existence is possible for those who do survive."
"Arrakis has it's own way determining who wears the mantle of authority,' Kynes said."
"A popular man arouses the jealousy of the powerful,"
"He who can destroy a thing has the real control of it."
"There was danger, he felt, of overrunning himself, and he had to hold onto his awareness of the present, sensing the blurred deflection of experience, the flowing moment, the continual solidification of that-which-is into the perpetual-was."
"The highest function of ecology is the understanding of consequences."
"the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult."
"Beyond a critical point within a finite space, freedom diminishes as numbers increase. This is as true of humans in the finite space of a planetary ecosystem as it is of gas molecules in a sealed flask. The human question is not how many can possibly survive within the system, but what kind of existence is possible for those who do survive."
"However, I’ve arranged for you to have a filmbook viewer and several lessons during the crossing to Arrakis."
"A faint green-pearl luminescence etched the eastern horizon."
"It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult."
"On that first day when Muad’Dib rode through the streets of Arrakeen with his family, some of the people along the way recalled the legends and the prophecy and they ventured to shout: "Mahdi!" But their shout was more a question than a statement, for as yet they could only hope he was the one foretold as the Lisan al-Gaib, the Voice from the Outer World. Their attention was focused, too, on the mother, because they had heard she was a Bene Gesserit and it was obvious to them that she was like the other Lisan al-Gaib."
"The agnostic ruling class for whom religion was a kind of puppet show to amuse the polpulace and keep it docile, and who believed essentially that all phenomena – even religious phenomena – could be reduced to mechanical explanations."
"We Fremen have a saying: ‘God created Arrakis to train the faithful.’ One cannot go against the word of God."
"And the race knew only one sure way for this—the ancient way, the tried and certain way that rolled over everything in its path: jihad."
"One of the most terrible moments in a boy’s life," Paul said, "is when he discovers his father and mother are human beings who share a love that he can never quite taste. It’s a loss, an awakening to the fact that the world is there and here and we are in it alone. The moment carries its own truth; you can’t evade it."
"La esperanza ofusca la observación."
"The hands move, the lips move-Ideas gush from his words,And his eyes devour!He is an island of Selfdom"
"Control the coinage and the courts – let the rabble have the rest." Thus the Padishah Emperor advised you. And he tells you: "If you want profits, you must rule." There is truth in these words, but I ask myself: "Who are the rabble and who are the ruled?"
"I have been a stranger in a strange land,’" Halleck quoted."
"Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past me I will turn to see fear’s path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
"The people who can destroy a thing, they control it," Paul"
"man’s flesh is his own and his water belongs to the tribe—and the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve but a reality to experience."
"Humans live best when each has his own place, when each knows where he belongs in the scheme of things. Destroy the place and destroy the person"
"Paul stood alone now just into the ring, clad in the fighting trunks he’d worn under his stillsuit."
"Paul crawled through the sphincter"
"must never submit to animals."
"watching her crawl through the sphincter"
"There is probably no more terrible instant of enlightenment than the one in which you discover your father is a man—with human flesh."
"Command must always look confident, he thought. All that faith riding on your shoulders while you sit in the critical seat and never show it."
"And when it has gone past me I will turn to see fear’s path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
"For now my grief is heavier than the sands of the seas... This world has emptied me of all but the oldest purpose: tomorrow's life."
"For what would you use such a place, Paul Atreides?" "To make this planet a fit place for humans," Paul said. Perhaps that’s why I help them, Kynes thought."
"You’re just tired, Father." "I am tired," the Duke agreed. "I’m morally tired. The melancholy degeneration of the Great Houses has afflicted me at last, perhaps. And we were such strong people once."
"His left hand felt the sphincter"
"Greatness is a transitory experience. It is never consistent. It depends in part upon the myth-making imagination of humankind."
"He maintains the level of individuals. Too few individuals, and a people reverts to a mob." His"
"She said a thing."
"The Fremen were supreme in that quality the ancients called "spannungsbogen"—which is the self-imposed delay between desire for a thing and the act of reaching out to grasp that thing."
"Paul crouched at the sphincter,"
"may your blade chip and shatter"
"The Reverend Mother must combine the seductive wiles of a courtesan with the untouchable majesty of a virgin goddess, holding these attributes in tension so long as the powers of her youth endure. For when youth and beauty have gone, she will find that the place-between, once occupied by tension, has become a wellspring of cunning and resourcefulness."
"Any road followed precisely to its end leads precisely nowhere. Climb the mountain just a little bit to test that it’s a mountain. From the top of the mountain, you cannot see the mountain."
"To attempt an understanding of Muad’Dib without understanding his mortal enemies, the Harkonnens, is to attempt seeing Truth without knowing Falsehood. It is the attempt to see the Light without knowing Darkness. It cannot be. —FROM "MANUAL OF MUAD’DIB" BY THE PRINCESS IRULAN"
"How soon this child must assume his manhood, Halleck thought. How soon he must read that form within his mind, that contract of brutal caution, to enter the necessary fact on the necessary line: ‘Please list your next of kin."
"El miedo mata la mente. El miedo es la pequeña muerte que conduce a la destrucción total. Afrontaré mi miedo. Permitiré que pase sobre mí y a través de mí. Y cuando haya pasado, giraré mi ojo interior para escrutar su camino. Allá donde haya pasado el miedo ya no habrá nada. Sólo estaré yo."
"Muad’Dib could indeed see the Future, but you must understand the limits of this power. Think of sight. You have eyes, yet cannot see without light. If you are on the floor of a valley, you cannot see beyond your valley. Just so, Muad’Dib could not always choose to look across the mysterious terrain. He tells us that a single obscure decision of prophecy, perhaps the choice of one word over another, could change the entire aspect of the future. He tells us "The vision of time is broad, but when you pass through it, time becomes a narrow door." And always, he fought the temptation to choose a clear, safe course, warning "That path leads ever down into stagnation."
"De alguna manera, la decepción había hecho mucho más concreto el concepto del paraíso."
"Para los demás, diremos que Muad’Dib aprendió rápidamente porque la primera enseñanza que recibió fue la certeza básica de que podía aprender. Es horrible pensar cómo tanta gente cree que no puede aprender, y cómo más gente aún cree que el aprender es difícil. Muad’Dib sabía que cada experiencia lleva en sí misma su lección."
"The clock there had not been properly adjusted to local time, and she had to subtract twenty-one minutes to determine that it was about 2 A.M. The"
"I salve my own conscience. I give him the surcease of religion before betraying him. Thus may I say to myself that he has gone where I cannot go."
"Most of the Houses have grown fat by taking few risks. One cannot truly blame them for this; one can only despise them."
"The historical system of mutual pillage and extortion stops here on Arrakis," his father said. "You cannot go on forever stealing what you need without regard to those who come after."
"The historical system of mutual pillage and extortion stops here on Arrakis [...] You cannot go on forever stealing what you need without regard to those who come after."
"Better a dry morsel and quietness than a house full of sacrifice and strife."
"So many times you’ve given me comfort and forgetfulness."
"For now is my grief heavier than the sands of the seas,"
"A world is supported by four things…." She held up four big-knuckled fingers. "…the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave."
"Con el punto de apoyo adecuado es posible hasta mover el mundo"
"We are getting no messages," the signalman beside Paul said. "Much static."
"A time of love and a time of grief."
"Whether a thought is spoken or not, it is a real thing and it has power."
"She said a ruler must learn to persuade and not to compel. She said he must lay the best coffee hearth to attract the finest men."
"Arrakis is a one-crop planet [...] One crop. It supports a ruling class that lives as ruling classes have lived in all times while, beneath them, a semihuman mass of semislaves exists on the leavings."
"heedlessly"
"trinocular vision that permitted him to see time-become-space. There"
"How often it is that the angry man rages denial of what his inner self is telling him. —FROM "COLLECTED SAYINGS OF MUAD’DIB"
"No more terrible disaster could befall your people than for them to fall into the hands of a Hero."
"Mystery of life isn't a problem to solve but a reality to experience."
"The thing the ecologically illiterate don’t understand about an ecosystems is that it is a system…that’s why the highest function of ecology is the understanding of consequences."
"Such was not my suggestion," he said. She heard the steel in his voice, the sense of command, and stared across the gray darkness of the stilltent at him. Paul was a silhouette against moon-frosted rocks seen through the tent’s transparent end."
"ruling class that lives as ruling classes have lived in all times while, beneath them, a semihuman mass of semislaves exists on the leavings. It’s"
"Paul had been caught more by her tone—singsong and wavering—than by her words. "When you live upon Arrakis," she had said, "khala, the land is empty. The moons will be your friends, the sun your enemy." Paul had sensed his mother come up beside him away from her post guarding the door. She had looked at the Reverend Mother and asked: "Do you see no hope, Your Reverence?" "Not for the father."
"We mustn’t run short of filmbase," the Duke said. "Else, how could we flood village and city with our information? The people must learn how well I govern them. How would they know if we didn’t tell them?"
"What terrible things we do to those we love!"
"There is a fifth force which shaped religious belief, but its effect is so universal and profound that it deserves to stand alone. This is, of course, space travel—and in any discussion of religion, it deserves to be written thus: SPACE TRAVEL!"
"The size of the attack struck his mind like a physical blow."
"He could see it stretching ahead of him, a time of relative quiet in a hidden sietch, a moment of peace between periods of violence."
"[...] the tender indignities of physical love, the sharing and communion of selves, the softness and the violence."
"The masses of Arrakis will know that we work to make the land flow with water," his father said. "Most of them, of course, will have only a semimystical understanding of how we intend to do this. Many, not understanding the prohibitive mass-ratio problem, may even think we’ll bring water from some other planet rich in it. Let them think anything they wish as long as they believe in us."
"Cuanta más vida hay en un sistema, mayor es la cantidad de nichos que existen para preservar esta vida"
"In the week before their departure to Arrakis, when all the final scurrying about had reached a nearly unbearable frenzy, an old crone came to visit the mother of the boy, Paul."
"must not fear. Fear is the mind-killer. Fear is the little-death that brings total obliteration. I will face my fear. I will permit it to pass over me and through me. And when it has gone past I will turn the inner eye to see its path. Where the fear has gone there will be nothing. Only I will remain."
"Nul ne peut vraiment leur en vouloir. On ne peut que les mépriser."
"There must be terrible purpose in it…the pain and fear had been terrible. He understood terrible purposes. They drove against all odds. They were their own necessity. Paul felt that he had been infected with terrible purpose. He did not know yet what the terrible purpose was."
"How the mind gears itself for its environment,"
"To save one from a mistake is a gift of paradise,"
"we can say that Muad’Dib learned rapidly because his first training was in how to learn. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad’Dib knew that every experience carries its lesson."
"You must think like a patch of sand. Hide beneath your cloak and become a little dune in your very essence."
"riposte"
"How do you call among you the little mouse, the mouse that jumps?"
"Grave this on your memory, lad: A world is supported by four things…." She held up four big-knuckled fingers. "…the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these are as nothing…." She closed her fingers into a fist. "…without a ruler who knows the art of ruling. Make that the science of your tradition!" A"
"it’s well known that repression makes a religion flourish."
"The thing the ecologically illiterate don’t realize about an ecosystem,’ Kynes said, ‘is that it’s a system. A system! A system maintains a certain fluid stability that can be destroyed by a misstep in just one niche."
"Have you heard the latest word from Arrakis?" the Baron asked. "No, Uncle." Feyd-Rautha forced himself not to look back. He turned down the hall out of the servants’ wing. "They’ve a new prophet or religious leader of some kind among the Fremen," the Baron said. "They call him Muad’Dib. Very funny, really. It means ‘the Mouse.’ I’ve told Rabban to let them have their religion. It’ll keep them occupied."
"Fino ad oggi gli uomini e le loro opere sono stati un flagello per i pianeti. La natura reagisce ai flagelli: li elimina o li assorbe per incorporarli nel suo sistema."
"It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad’Dib"
"Es probable que no haya un momento más terrible en nuestra vida que aquel en que uno descubre que su padre es un hombre, hecho de carne y hueso."
"I’ll pay for my own mistake." "And your son will pay with you." "I’ll shield him as well as I’m able." "Shield!" the old woman snapped. "You well know the weakness there! Shield your son too much, Jessica, and he’ll not grow strong enough to fulfill any destiny."
"Arrakis is a one-crop planet," his father said. "One crop. It supports a ruling class that lives as ruling classes have lived in all times while, beneath them, a semihuman mass of semislaves exists on the leavings. It’s the masses and the leavings that occupy our attention. These are far more valuable than has ever been suspected."
"Riots and comedy are but symptoms of the times, profoundly revealing."
"Grave this on your memory, lad: A world is supported by four things…." She held up four big-knuckled fingers. "…the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these are as nothing…." She closed her fingers into a fist. "…without a ruler who knows the art of ruling. Make that the science of your tradition!"
"As always, Paul experienced a sense of presence in his father, someone totally here."
"Then you should just go take one," Hawat sneered. "Yes," the Fremen said. "We took one. We have it hidden where Stilgar can study it for Liet and where Liet can see it for himself if he wishes. But I doubt he’ll want to: the weapon is not a very good one. Poor design for Arrakis." "You…took one?" Hawat asked. "It was a good fight," the Fremen said. "We lost only two men and spilled the water from more than a hundred of theirs." There were Sardaukar at every gun, Hawat thought. This desert madman speaks casually of losing only two men against Sardaukar!"
"That girl! She was like a touch of destiny"
"Observe the plans within plans within plans"
"Perhaps you are the Kwisatz Haderach. Sit down, little brother, here at my feet." "I prefer to stand." "Your mother sat at my feet once." "I’m not my mother." "You hate us a little, eh?"
"You cannot go on forever stealing what you need without regard to those who come after."
"My father once told me that respect for the truth comes close to being the basis for all morality."
"Like as not I have seen them," he said."
"There should be a science of discontent. People need hard times and oppression to develop psychic muscles."
"life"
"We've a three-point civilization: the Imperial Household balanced against the Federated Great Houses of the Landsraad, and between them, the Guild with its damnable monopoly on interstellar transport. In politics, the tripod is the most unstable of all structures. It'd be bad enough without the complication of a feudal trade culture which turns its back on most science."
"All men must see that the teaching of religion by rules and rote is largely a hoax. The proper teaching is recognized with ease. You can know it without fail because it awakens within you that sensation which tells you this is something you’ve always known."
"Gördükleri karşısında donup kalmak, hiç kımıldamamak isterdi; ama bu da birtakım sonuçlar doğuracak bir eylemdi."
"White for poison, black for purity," the Lady Fenring said. "A curious custom, isn’t it, my love?"
"I’ve sat across from many rulers of Great Houses, but never seen a more gross and dangerous pig than this one, Thufir Hawat told himself."
"Give as few orders as possible," his father had told him…once…long ago. "Once you’ve given orders on a subject, you must always give orders on that subject."
"A world is supported by four things…." She held up four big-knuckled fingers. "…the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these are as nothing…." She closed her fingers into a fist. "…without a ruler who knows the art of ruling. Make that the science of your tradition"
"That witch mother of his is giving him the deep training, certainly."
"They’re in league with the future,"
"And Kynes rubbed his cheek, thinking of the legend: "He shall know your ways as though born to them."
"the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience."
"who hate the Harkonnens so much they’ll burn a chair in which a Harkonnen has sat, salt the ground over which a Harkonnen has walked."
"When religion and politics travel in the same cart, the riders believe nothing can stand in their way. Their movement becomes headlong—faster and faster and faster. They put aside all thought of obstacles and forget that a precipice does not show itself to the man in a blind rush until it’s too late."
"I am a theater of processes, he told himself. I am a prey to the imperfect vision, to the race consciousness and its terrible purpose."
"He recalled another thing the old woman had said about a world being the sum of many things – the people, the dirt, the growing things, the moons, the tides, the suns – the unknown sum called nature, a vague summation without any sense of the now. And he wondered: What is the now?"
"A world is supported by four things…." She held up four big-knuckled fingers. "…the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these are as nothing…." She closed her fingers into a fist. "…without a ruler who knows the art of ruling. Make that the science of your tradition!"
"He recalled another thing the old woman had said about a world being the sum of many things—the people, the dirt, the growing things, the moons, the tides, the suns—the unknown sum called nature, a vague summation without any sense of the now. And he wondered: What is the now?"
"The noise obviously wasn’t penetrating to his quarters."
"One of the most terrible moments in a boy’s life," Paul said, "is when he discovers his father and mother are human beings who share a love that he can never quite taste. It’s a loss, an awakening to the fact that the world is there and here and we are in it alone."
"They’ll call me…Muad’Dib, ‘The One Who Points the Way."
"Jessica stopped beside him, said: "What delicious abandon in the sleep of a child." He spoke mechanically: "If only adults could relax like that." "Yes." "Where do we lose it?" he murmured."
"I swear this to you by the love I hold for you, a love I will still hold even after I leave you deadon this floor."
"We know what we have ahead of us—work. We’ve been trained for it. We’ve some experience in it. We know what the rewards are and the alternatives are clear enough."
"What better way to destroy me than to sow suspicion of the woman I love?"
"We cannot have such inept chess players in our employ."
"Once you’ve given orders on a subject, you must always give orders on that subject."
"It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad’Dib knew that every experience carries its lesson."
"Awareness flowed into that timeless stratum where he could view time, sensing the available paths, the winds of the future…the winds of the past: the one-eyed vision of the past, the one-eyed vision of the present and the one-eyed vision of the future—all combined in a trinocular vision that permitted him to see time-become-space."
"He knew names and places, experienced emotions without number, reviewed data of innumerable unexplored crannies. There was time to probe and test and taste, but no time to shape."
"And Paul thought: Gurney’s one of those the Reverend Mother meant, a supporter of worlds—"…the valor of the brave."
"But wisdom tempers love, doesn’t it? And it puts a new shape on hate. How"
"But the idea of living out his life in the mind-groping-ahead-through-possible-futures that guided hurtling spaceships appalled him. It was a way, though."
"spannungsbogen"—which is the self-imposed delay between desire for a thing and the act of reaching out to grasp that thing. —"
"There had been so many things to learn. Arrakis would be a place so different from Caladan that Paul’s mind whirled with the new knowledge. Arrakis—Dune—Desert Planet."
"Is it defeatist or treacherous for a doctor to diagnose a disease correctly? My only intention is to cure the disease."
"The realization that all religions had at least one common commandment: "Thou shalt not disfigure the soul."
"Nothing on this planet had so forcefully hammered into her the ultimate value of water. Not the water-sellers, not the dried skins of the natives, not stillsuits or the rules of water discipline. Here there was a substance more precious than all others - it was life itself and entwined all around with symbolism and ritual."
"polish comes from the cities, wisdom from the desert."
"There were forty Fremen—she and Paul made it forty-two."
"Whether a thought is spoken or not, it is a real thing and has powers of reality."
"Paul swallowed. He felt that he played a part already played over countless times in his mind…yet…there were differences. He could see himself perched on a dizzying summit, having experienced much and possessed of a profound store of knowledge, but all around him was abyss. And again he remembered the vision of fanatic legions following the green and black banner of the Atreides, pillaging and burning across the universe in the name of their prophet Muad’Dib. That must not happen, he told himself."
"He felt the liquid gush into his throat as Chani pressed the sack,"
"My father once told me that respect for the truth comes close to being the basis for all morality. "Something cannot emerge from nothing," he said. This is profound thinking if you understand how unstable "the truth" can be."
"the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve but a reality to experience."
"Show no mercy. Never stop. Mercy is a chimera. It can be defeated by the stomach rumbling its hunger, by the throat crying its thirst."
"A world is supported by four things…." She held up four big-knuckled fingers. "…the learning of the wise, the justice of the great, the prayers of the righteous and the valor of the brave. But all of these are as nothing…." She closed her fingers into a fist. "…without a ruler who knows the art of ruling."
"It was as though he rode within the wave of time, sometimes in its trough, sometimes on a crest—and all around him the other waves lifted and fell, revealing and then hiding what they bore on their surface."
"The people who can destroy a thing, they control it,"
"Think of all those experiences, the wisdom they’d bring. But wisdom tempers love, doesn’t it? And it puts a new shape on hate."
"The whole theory of warfare is calculated risk," the Duke said, "but when it comes to risking your own family, the element of calculation gets submerged in…other things."
"The race knows its own mortality and fears stagnation of its heredity."
"Misterio de la Vida no es un problema que hay que resolver, sino una realidad que hay que experimentar."
"He was warrior and mystic, ogre and saint, the fox and the innocent, chivalrous, ruthless, less than a god, more than a man. There is no measuring Muad’Dib’s motives by ordinary standards. In the moment of his triumph, he saw the death prepared for him, yet he accepted the treachery."
"You can say to yourself, "Yes, I see how such a thing may be." But when you look inward and confront the raw force of your own life unshielded, you see your peril. You see that this could overwhelm you. The greatest peril to the Giver is the force that takes. The greatest peril to the Taker is the force that gives. It’s as easy to be overwhelmed by giving as by taking."
"Of course, the prophecy left certain latitude as to whether the Mother Goddess would bring the Messiah with her or produce Him on the scene. Still, there was this odd correspondence between prediction and persons."
"The concept of progress acts as a protective mechanism to shield us from the terrors of the future. —FROM "COLLECTED SAYINGS OF MUAD’DIB"
"Humans live best when each has his own place, when each knows where he belongs in the scheme of things. Destroy the place and destroy the person. You and I, Thufir, of all those who love the Duke, are most ideally situated to destroy the other’s place."
"The voice was baritone and with exquisite control. It managed to dismiss him while greeting him."
"The unknown brings its own worries,’ he said."
"Where Thufir Hawat goes, death and deceit follow." "You malign him." "Malign? I praise him. Death and deceit are our only hopes now."
"She sleeps in the Waters of Life." Chani"
"the face was predatory: thin, full of sharp angles and panes."
"It occurred to her that mercy was the ability to stop, if only for a moment. There was no mercy where there could be no stopping."
"beginning is the time for taking the most delicate care that the balances are correct. This every sister of the Bene Gesserit knows. To begin your study of the life of Muad’Dib, then, take care that you first place him in his time: born in the 57th year of the Padishah Emperor, Shaddam IV. And take the most special care that you locate Muad’Dib in his place: the planet Arrakis. Do not be deceived by the fact that he was born on Caladan and lived his first fifteen years there. Arrakis, the planet known as Dune, is forever his place. —FROM "MANUAL OF MUAD’DIB" BY THE PRINCESS IRULAN"
"We mustn’t run short of filmbase,’ the Duke said. ‘Else, how could we flood village and city with our information? The people must learn how well I govern them. How would they know if we didn’t tell them?"
"Pero no nos lamentemos por la falta de justicia mientras tengamos brazos y seamos libres para usarlos."
"Anything outside yourself, this you can see and apply your logic to it," she said. "But it’s a human trait that when we encounter personal problems, those things most deeply personal are the most difficult to bring out for our logic to scan. We tend to flounder around, blaming everything but the actual, deep-seated thing that’s really chewing on us."
"Do you wrestle with dreams? Do you contend with shadows? Do you move in a kind of sleep? Time has slipped away. Your life is stolen. You tarried with trifles, Victim of your folly."
"when one has lived with prophecy for so long, the moment of revelation is a shock."
"Give as few orders as possible," his father had told him…once…long ago. "Once you’ve given orders on a subject, you must always give orders on that subject." The Fremen"
"And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad’Dib knew that every experience carries its lesson."
"Starlight displaced just enough of the night to charge each shadow with menace."
"First Law of Mentat at her: ‘A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join it and flow with it."
"There is in each of us an ancient force that takes and an ancient force that gives. A man finds little difficulty facing that place within himself where the taking force dwells, but it’s almost impossible for him to see into the giving force without changing into something other than man. For a woman, the situation is reversed."
"Thufir, old friend," Paul said, "as you can see, my back is toward no door." "The universe is full of doors," Hawat said."
"A process cannot be understood by stopping it. Understanding must move with the flow of the process, must join it and flow with it.’ That seemed to satisfy her."
"to be conscious by choice"
"The religious commentary statement in Dune is the one that we've discussed earlier, that messiahs should come with a label on the forehead that reads, 'Caution, may be dangerous to your health."
"He looked, from behind, like a fleshless stick figure in overlarge black clothing, a caricature poised for stringy movement at the direction of a puppet master. Only"
"Chaque route que l'on suit exactement jusqu'au bout ne conduit exactement à rien. Escaladez la montagne pour voir si c'est bien une montagne. Quand vous serez au sommet de la montagne, vous ne pourrez plus voir la montagne."
"A ruling class that lives as ruling classes have lived in all times while, beneath them, a semihuman mass of semislaves exists on the leavings."
"He lifted a naked kindjal from the table and held it up. "This in the hand of an enemy can let out your life’s blood! You’re an apt pupil, none better, but I’ve warned you that not even in play do you let a man inside your guard with death in his hand." "I guess I’m not in the mood for it today," Paul said. "Mood?" Halleck’s voice betrayed his outrage even through the shield’s filtering. "What has mood to do with it? You fight when the necessity arises—no matter the mood! Mood’s a thing for cattle or making love or playing the baliset. It’s not for fighting."
"The waiting moment was packed with time, with rustling needle-stick movements."
"Nous avons été déracinés. C'est pour cela que nous ne sommes pas à notre aise.''Et combien il est facile de tuer une plante déracinée. Surtout lorsqu'on la replante dans un milieu hostile.''Sommes-nous certains que ce sol soit hostile?"
"strive for flow-permanence within…."
"Kynes passed an unreadable glance across Bewt, said: 'It is said in the desert that possession of water in great amount can inflict a man with fatal carelessness."
"If wishes were fishes we’d all cast nets," he murmured. It was his mother’s expression and he always used it when he felt the blackness of tomorrow on him. Then he thought what an odd expression that was to be taking to a planet that had never known seas or fishes."
"Celui qui gouverne doit apprendre à convaincre et non à obliger."
"The whole theory of warfare is calculated risk,"
"You cannot go on forever stealing what you need without regard to those who come after. The physical qualities of a planet are written into its economic and political record. We have the record in front of us and our course is obvious."
"the mystery of life isn’t a problem to solve, but a reality to experience"
"all things/cells/beings are impermanent . . . strive for flow-permanence within. . ."
"Many have remarked the speed with which Muad’Dib learned the necessities of Arrakis. The Bene Gesserit, of course, know the basis of this speed. For the others, we can say that Muad’Dib learned rapidly because his first training was in how to learn. And the first lesson of all was the basic trust that he could learn. It is shocking to find how many people do not believe they can learn, and how many more believe learning to be difficult. Muad’Dib knew that every experience carries its lesson."
"A stone is heavy and the sand is weighty; but a fool’s wrath is heavier than them both."
"The moons will be your friends, the sun your enemy."